.TH adaptor 8gx "" "Gromox" "Gromox admin reference"
.SH Synopsis
.PP
\fBadaptor\fP [\fB\-c\fP \fIconfig\fP]
.SH Description
.PP
adaptor reads table data from MySQL and builds text files that act as caches
for modules that utilize them. See the FILES section for example uses.
.SH Options
.TP
\fB\-c\fP \fIconfig\fP
Read configuration directives from the given file. If this option is not
specified, /etc/gromox/adaptor.cfg will be read if it exists.
.TP
\fB\-\-version\fP
Output version information and exit.
.TP
\fB\-?\fP
Display option summary.
.SH Files
.IP \(bu 4
\fIdata_file_path\fI/alias_addresses.txt: used by alias_translator(4gx)
.IP \(bu 4
\fIdata_file_path\fI/backup_list.txt: used by archive_agent(4gx), backup_list(4gx)
.IP \(bu 4
\fIdata_file_path\fI/console_table.txt
.IP \(bu 4
\fIdata_file_path\fI/domain_list.txt
.IP \(bu 4
\fIdata_file_path\fI/mailbox_collector.txt
.IP \(bu 4
\fIdata_file_path\fI/uncheck_domains.txt
.SH Configuration file directives
.SS collector_mailbox
.PP
Default: (unset)
.SS data_file_path
.PP
Directory for additional files.
.PP
Default: \fI/usr/share/gromox/sa\fP
.SS gateway_mount_path
.PP
Default: \fI/var/lib/gromox/gateway\fP
.SS limit_type
.PP
Default: (unset)
.SS log_file_path
.PP
Default: \fI/var/log/gromox/sa.log\fP
.SS mysql_dbname
.PP
Default: \fIemail\fP
.SS mysql_host
.PP
The hostname/IP address for contacting the SQL server.
.PP
Default: \fIlocalhost\fP
.SS mysql_password
.PP
Default: (unset)
.SS mysql_port
.PP
The TCP port number for contacting the SQL server.
.PP
Default: \fI3306\fP
.SS subsystem_address
.PP
Default: (unset)
.SH See also
.PP
\fBgromox\fP(7)
