.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0 or-later
.\" SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2021-2024 grommunio GmbH
.TH autoconfig 7 "" "Gromox" "Gromox admin reference"
.SH Name
autoconfig \(em Thunderbird AutoConfig protocol
.SH Description
.PP
AutoConfig is a HTTP-based discovery protocol, originally introduced for
Mozilla Thunderbird (TB) 3.0 in 2009. It is quite similar to autodiscover(7).
This manual page is not normative.
.PP
TB tries a bunch of URLs, with HTTP GET:
.IP \(bu 4
\fBhttps://autoconfig.\fP\fIexample.com\fP\fB/mail/config-v1.1.xml?emailaddress=\fP\fIuser@example.com\fP
.IP \(bu 4
\fBhttp://autoconfig.\fP\fIexample.com\fP\fB/mail/config-v1.1.xml?emailaddress=\fP\fIuser@example.com\fP
.IP \(bu 4
\fBhttps://\fP\fIexample.com\fP\fB/.well-known/autoconfig/mail/config-v1.1.xml?emailaddress=\fP\fIuser@example.com\fP
.IP \(bu 4
\fBhttp://\fP\fIexample.com\fP\fB/.well-known/autoconfig/mail/config-v1.1.xml?emailaddress=\fP\fIuser@example.com\fP
.IP \(bu 4
DNS SRV lookups are not performed.
.PP
Note that TLS wildcard certificates do not extend to more than one level; for
example, if the e-mail address is `foo@m1.example.com`, and the m1 host
presents a server certificates for `CN=example.com, subjAltName=*.example.com`,
clients that are trying to download
`autoconfig.m1.example.com/mail/config-v1.1.xml` may fail TLS verification. The
Thunderbird setup wizard (circa version 140) does not show TLS failures, and
silently treats it as an unavailable resource.
.PP
TB \fIalso\fP performs AutoDiscover.
.SH config-v1.1.xml
.PP
The Thunderbird wiki at
<https://wiki.mozilla.org/Thunderbird:Autoconfiguration> is quite lacking as of
2026-07-01. It has neither formal ABNF syntax, nor does it mention possible
values for certain XML attributes. One has to resort to looking at source code,
<https://github.com/mozilla/releases-comm-central/blob/master/mail/components/accountcreation/modules/readFromXML.sys.mjs#L78>.
.PP
In Thunderbird 140, incomingServers may be of type "imap", "pop3", "nntp", "exchange".
The comm-central master has some more values.
.SH See also
\fBgromox\fP(7), \fBautodiscover\fP(7)
