.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0 or-later
.\" SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2025 grommunio GmbH
.TH cgkrepair 8gx "" "Gromox" "Gromox admin reference"
.SH Name
\fBcgkrepair\fP \(em Repair broken Change Key and PCL properties
.SH Synopsis
\fB/usr/libexec/gromox/cgkrepair [options] \-e\fP
[\fIuser\fP]\fB@\fIdomain\fP
.PP
For a given store, cgkrepair looks at all folder and message objects whether
they have reasonably-looking values for PR_CHANGE_KEY and
PR_PREDECESSOR_CHANGE_LIST. It emits a line for objects with problems, along
with status letters in square brackets to
indicate individual tests that have failed.
.PP
message 6f5739h [--P] (new key: 8000008a04a7h)
.PP
The possible flags include:
.IP \(bu 4
Z: The size of PR_CHANGE_KEY did not match the requirements of the MS-OXCFXICS
v25 specification \sc2.2.1.2.7.
.IP \(bu 4
N: PR_CHANGE_KEY is in the future.
.IP \(bu 4
P: PR_PREDECESSOR_LIST contains a Change Key that is in the future or which
does not match the requirements of MS-OXCFXICS.
.PP
When a problem is found, or when \-\-force\-fix is specified, a new Change Key
is issued and the PCL updated. Change Keys are a monotonic counter for recency,
something quite like a timestamp, but not bound to a clock. Fixing Change Keys
can make them go backwards, and since the server now apparently has an "older"
item, clients do not necessarily synchronize it anymore, therefore, .ost files
should be deleted to purge bad CKs from the client side as well.
.SH Options
.TP
\fB\-\-force\-fix\fP
Replace Change Keys and PCLs of all objects regardless of whether they were
considered broken or not.
.TP
\fB\-\-skip\-msg\fP
Only process folder objects.
.TP
\fB\-e\fP [\fIuser\fP]\fB@\fP\fIdomain\fP
Operate on the given private/user store or public/domain mailbox.
.TP
\fB\-n\fP
Perform a dry run.
