.TH da.cfg 5gx "" "Gromox" "Gromox user reference"
.SH Name
.PP
\fBda.cfg\fP \(em configuration file for the Domain Administration subsystem
.SH Description
.PP
da.cfg contains settings used by a multitude of smaller programs related to
Domain Administration. Not every program uses every directive.
.SH Directives
.SS admin_mailbox
.PP
Default: (unset)
.SS app_data_path
.PP
Default: \fI/app-data\fP
.SS backup_valid_days
.PP
Default: \fI365\fP
.SS collector_mailbox
.PP
Default: \fI
.SS data_file_path
.PP
Directory for additional files.
.PP
Default: \fI/usr/share/gromox/da\fP
.SS domain_exit_url
.PP
Default: \fIdomain_main\fP
.SS exit_url
.PP
Default: (unset)
.SS extpasswd_type
.PP
A value >= 2 and <= 5.
.PP
Default: \fI2\fP
.SS file_cache_size
.PP
Default: \fI5000\fP
.SS gateway_mount_path
.PP
Default: \fI/var/lib/gromox/gateway\fP
.SS group_exit_url
.PP
Default: \fIgroup_main\fP
.SS kbounce_language
.PP
Default: \fIen\fP
.SS kbounce_mailbox
.PP
Default: (empty)
.SS keyword_type
.PP
Default: \fI0\fP
.SS limit_type
.PP
Pick "1" for a deny-based list, "2" for an allow-based list.
.PP
Default: \fI2\fP
.SS log_file_path
.PP
Default: \fI/var/log/gromox/da.log\fP
.SS log_valid_days
.PP
Default: \fI90\fP
.SS logo_link
.PP
The hyperlink that is associated with the logo image.
.PP
Default: (unspecified)
.SS maximum_maildir_files
.PP
Default: \fI2000000\fP
.SS mysql_dbname
.PP
Default: \fIemail\fP
.SS mysql_host
.PP
The hostname/IP address for contacting the SQL server.
.PP
Default: \fIlocalhost\fP
.SS mysql_password
.PP
Default: (unset)
.SS mysql_port
.PP
The TCP port number for contacting the SQL server.
.PP
Default: \fI3306\fP
.SS mysql_username
.PP
Default: (unset)
.SS report_language
.PP
Default: (unset)
.SS report_type
.PP
Default: (unset)
.SS session_listen_ip
.PP
The IPv4 address for contacting the session(8gx) service.
.PP
Default: \fI127.0.0.1\fP
.SS session_list_port
.PP
The TCP port number for contacting the session(8gx) service.
.PP
Default: \fI9999\fP
.SS subsytem_address
.PP
The IPv4 address for ... The special value of \fBN/A\fP means the associated
feature is not exercised by the domain_setup CGI program.
.PP
Default: \fIN/A\fP
.SH See also
.PP
\fBgromox\fP(7), \fBda_daemon\fP(8gx)
