.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0 or-later
.\" SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2025 grommunio GmbH
.TH ddbg 1 "" "Gromox" "Gromox admin reference"
.SH Name
ddbg \(em MAPI data debugger
.SH Synopsis
\fB/usr/libexec/gromox/ddbg\fP [options...] command [args...]
.SH Description
ddbg can be used to analyze various binary blobs. If no arguments are
given, input is instead read from stdin instead.
.SH Options
.TP
\fB\-p\fP, \fB\-\-pack\fP
Employ hex2bin before main action.
.SH Commands
.TP
\fB\-\-bin2hex\fP
Convert all bytes to hexnibble representation.
.TP
\fB\-\-bin2txt\fP
Convert all bytes to a textual representation. The environment variable
BIN2TXT_MODE can be used to influence the output. Possible values are
\fBcstr\fP (output as a C string literal without surrounding quotes), \fBhex\fP
(hex nibbles like bin2hex), \fBtxt\fP (custom compact encoding).
.TP
\fB\-d\fP, \fB\-\-decode\fP
Try all decoders.
.TP
\fB\-A\fP, \fB\-\-decode\-action\fP
Decode rule action blob.
.TP
\fB\-e\fP, \fB\-\-decode\-entryid\fP
Decode entryid.
.TP
\fB\-\-decode\-guid\fP
Lookup GUID.
.TP
\fB\-\-decode\-nttime\fP
Decode an NT timestamp and show the equivalent Unix time and calendar-based
date.
.TP
\fB\-\-decode\-restrict\fP
Decode restriction blob (e.g. rule condition).
.TP
\fB\-\-decode\-unixtime\fP
Decode an Unix timestamp and show the equivalent NT time and calendar-based
date.
.TP
\fB\-\-lzxdec\fP
Uncompress an lzxpress data stream.
.TP
\fB\-\-lzxenc\fP
Compress data stream with lzxpress.
.TP
\fB\-\-rtfcp\fP
Convert RTF to the RTFCP format, particularly the uncompressed "MELA"
subformat.
.TP
\fB\-\-rtftohtml\fP
Convert RTF to HTML.
.TP
\fB\-\-texttohtml\fP
Convert plaintext to HTML.
.TP
\fB\-\-unrtfcp\fP
Decompress RTFCP (either "MELA" or "LZFU") to RTF.
.SH Environment variables
AVOID_W3M can be set to yes/no to control htmltotext behavior.
.SH Examples
.IP \(bu 4
ddbg \-p \-\-decode\-guid 38a1bb1005e5101aa1bb08002b2a56c2
.IP \(bu 4
ddbg \-\-unrtfcp <body.bin >body.rtf
.SH See also
\fBgromox\fP(7)
