.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0 or-later
.\" SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2020-2021 grommunio GmbH
.TH event 8gx "" "Gromox" "Gromox admin reference"
.SH Name
event \(em Folder change notification daemon
.SH Synopsis
\fBevent\fP [\fB\-c\fP \fIconfig\fP]
.SH Description
The event daemon is a software bus, inter-process communication (IPC) mechanism
that allows communication between multiple processes running concurrently on
multiple machines.
.PP
In practice, it is used by midb(8gx), pop3(8gx) and imap(8gx) to notify
imap(8gx) instances of changed folder/message states.
.SH Options
.TP
\fB\-c\fP \fIconfig\fP
Read configuration directives from the given file. If this option is not
specified, /etc/gromox/event.cfg will be read if it exists.
.TP
\fB\-\-version\fP
Output version information and exit.
.TP
\fB\-?\fP
Display option summary.
.PP
All time-based command-line options and configuration file directives are
subject to the syntax described in gromox(7), section "Duration
specifications".
.SH Configuration directives
The usual config file location is /etc/gromox/event.cfg.
.TP
\fBconfig_file_path\fP
Colon-separated list of directories which will be scanned when locating further
configuration files.
.br
Default: \fI/etc/gromox/event:/etc/gromox\fP
.TP
\fBevent_hosts_allow\fP
A space-separated list of individual IPv6 or v4-mapped IPv6 host addresses that
are allowed to converse with the event service. No networks and no CIDR
notations are permitted. This option deprecates the /etc/gromox/event_acl.txt
file used in earlier versions.
.br
Default: \fI::1\fP
.TP
\fBevent_listen_ip\fP
An IPv6 address (or v4-mapped address) for exposing the event service on.
.br
Default: \fI::1\fP
.TP
\fBevent_listen_port\fP
The TCP port number for exposing the event service on.
.br
Default: \fI33333\fP
.TP
\fBevent_log_file\fP
Target for log messages here. Special values: "\fI-\fP" (stderr/syslog
depending on parent PID) or "\fIsyslog\fP" are recognized.
.br
Default: \fI-\fP (auto)
.TP
\fBevent_log_level\fP
Maximum verbosity of logging. 1=crit, 2=error, 3=warn, 4=notice, 5=info, 6=debug.
.br
Default: \fI4\fP (notice)
.TP
\fBevent_threads_num\fP
The minimum number of client processing threads to keep around.
.br
Default: \fI50\fP
.TP
\fBrunning_identity\fP
An unprivileged user account to switch the process to after startup.
To inhibit the switch, assign the empty value.
.br
Default: \fIgromox\fP
.SH Event protocol
The event service is exposed as a line-based text protocol. Upon connection,
the event server gratitiously writes "OK" and will wait for commands. Each
connection to the event daemon starts out in Enqueue Mode, and this is the only
mode from which commands can be issued.
.PP
"FALSE" may be emitted by the server if there is a syntax error.
.PP
The command "ID <res_id>" declares the particular connection to be a notification
sender. res_id is generally the hostname and the PID. The server always
responds with "TRUE". (The connection stays in Enqueue Mode.)
.PP
The command "LISTEN <res_id>" declares the particular connection to be a
notification receiver. res_id follows the same pattern. The server responds
with "TRUE" and the connection state changes to the Dequeue Mode (see below).
.PP
The command "SELECT <username> <folder>" subscribes those connections that have
registered \fBas a listener for res_id\fP to notifications. (This means that a
process wishing to use event_stub(4gx) to listen for notifications strictly
requires loading event_proxy(4gx) too, and, in essence, use two connections to
event(8gx).) The server responds with "FALSE" if no listener exists, or "TRUE"
on success.
.PP
The command "UNSELECT <username> <folder>" unsubscribes those connections that
had registered as a listener for res_id. The server always responds with
"TRUE".
.PP
Auxiliary self-explanatory commands available are: "QUIT" and "PING".
.PP
Any other input is treated as a notification item and is not interpreted by
event(8gx) beyond checking the number of fields:
.PP
The notification "FOLDER-TOUCH <username> <folder>" informs listeners that the
folder metadata has changed and warrants being reloaded.
.PP
The notification "MESSAGE-FLAG <username> <folder> <messageid>" informs
listeners that the message metadata has changed and warrants being reloaded.
.PP
The notification "MESSAGE-EXPUNGE <username> <folder> <messageid>" informs
listeners that the message was deleted.
.PP
Clients in Dequeue Mode will receive notifications. Each notification line
received by the client needs to be acknowledged with a "TRUE" response. It is
not possible to exit Dequeue Mode; connection termination is the only way out.
.PP
Events do not echo for a particular res_id. The event_proxy(4gx) and
event_stub(4gx) plugin implementations use the getpid() function when
constructing the res_id for the ID/LISTEN commands. A process like imap(8gx)
which uses both plugins will intentionally not see its own notifications over
the gromox-event IPC system this way.
.SH See also
\fBgromox\fP(7), \fBevent_proxy\fP(4gx), \fBevent_stub\fP(4gx)
