.TH exchange_nsp 4gx "" "Gromox" "Gromox admin reference"
.SH Name
exchange_nsp \(em http(8gx) processing plugin for the Exchange Server Name
Service Provider Interface Protocol.
.SH Description
exchange_nsp is a processing plugin for http(8gx) which handles the Exchange
Server Name Service Provider Interface Protocol, in essence providing the
Address Book for the EMSMDB connector.
.SH Configuration directives
The usual config file location is /etc/gromox/exchange_nsp.cfg.
.TP
\fBcache_interval\fP
Default: \fI5 minutes\fP
.TP
\fBhash_table_size\fP
Default: \fI3000\fP
.TP
\fBnsp_trace\fP
Level 1: Log entry into and exit out of NSP functions, with their parameter
values. Log data dumps of select calls. Level 2: Dump more data.
.br
Default: \fI0\fP
.TP
\fBsession_check\fP
Default: \fIfalse\fP
.TP
\fBx500_org_name\fP
Default: (unspecified)
.SH Notes
A number of properties are always synthesized by exchange_nsp and
never read from any storage; this includes key properties such as
PR_ENTRYID, PR_RECORD_KEY, etc. The following properties need
mentioning:
.IP \(bu 4
PR_DEPARTMENT: This property is synthesized from the department
that a user has been assigned to (cf. SQL table "users", column
"group_id", and SQL table "group", column "title").
.PP
For user-attached properties that are read from SQL (cf. table
"user_properties"), exchange_nsp (as well as zcore(8gx)'s AB) only
handles a subset of property types: PT_BOOLEAN, PT_SHORT, PT_LONG,
PT_I8, PT_SYSTIME, PT_BINARY, PT_UNICODE/STRING8 and
PT_MV_UNICODE/STRING8.
.SH Normative references
.IP \(bu 4
MS-OXNSPI: Exchange Server Name Service Provider Interface (NSPI) Protocol
.SH See also
\fBgromox\fP(7), \fBhttp\fP(8gx)
