.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0 or-later
.\" SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2020-2022 grommunio GmbH
.TH exchange_emsmdb 4gx "" "Gromox" "Gromox admin reference"
.SH Name
exchange_emsmdb(4gx) \(em http(8gx) processing plugin for the Wire Format
Protocol (Outlook/Exchange RPCs).
.SH Description
exchange_emsmdb is a processing plugin for http(8gx) which handles the remote
procedure calls for the EMSMDB v1 and AsyncEMSMDB v1 RPC interfaces, as well as
OXCROPS as issued by the EcDoRpcExt2 call or the MAPIHTTP EXECUTE call.
.PP
EMSMDB is a DCE/RPC interface with just a few RPC calls (6 are still used
today). ecDoRpcExt2, a call offered by that interface, takes an opaque byte
buffer argument not interpreted by DCE/RPC. That byte buffer contains another
protocol, "Remote Operation(s) Encoding Protocol" [OXCROPS]. No reason for this
wrapping is given in the OXCRPC spec. MAPIHTTP runs OXCROPS directly without
the extra EMSMDB framing.
.PP
OXCROPS consists of 130 calls that make up the mailbox protocol.
.SH Configuration directives
The usual config file location is /etc/gromox/exchange_emsmdb.cfg.
.TP
\fBasync_threads_num\fP
Default: \fI4\fP
.TP
\fBaverage_handles\fP
Default: \fI1000\fP
.TP
\fBaverage_mem\fP
Default: \fI4K\fP
.TP
\fBems_max_active_notifh\fP
Maximum number of concurrently active notify handles.
.br
Default: (unlimited)
.TP
\fBems_max_active_sessions\fP
Maximum number of concurrently active EMSMDB session handles.
.br
Default: (unlimited)
.TP
\fBems_max_active_users\fP
Maximum number of concurrently active mailbox identities.
.br
Default: (unlimited)
.TP
\fBems_max_pending_sesnotif\fP
Maximum number of pending notifications for an EMSMDB session. (If a client
accrues too many pending notifications, there may be something wrong with the
client.)
.br
Default: \fI1K\fP
.TP
\fBemsmdb_max_cxh_per_user\fP
The maximum number of RPC context handles any one \fBmailbox\fP can have at any
one time. Use 0 to indicate unlimited.
.br
Default: \fI100\fP
.TP
\fBemsmdb_max_obh_per_session\fP
The maximum number of object handles each session can have at any one time
(e.g. folders/messages/etc. open simultaneously). Use 0 to indicate unlimited.
There is one session for each time a mailbox is opened.
.br
Default: \fI500\fP
.TP
\fBemsmdb_private_folder_softdel\fP
Enables soft-delete support for folders in private stores. (This feature is
experimental.) Public folders always have this on. (Take note that
exmdb_provider.cfg:exmdb_private_folder_softdelete also need to be enabled.)
.br
Default: \fIno\fP
.TP
\fBemsmdb_rop_chaining\fP
0: Deactivate ROP chaining. 1: Enable ROP chaining for OL < 15 and OL >=
16.0.10000 (OL2019, OL2021, OLM365). 2: Enabled for all clients.
.br
Default: \fI1\fP
.TP
\fBmailbox_ping_interval\fP
Default: \fI5 minutes\fP
.TP
\fBmail_max_length\fP
The maximum size for any individual attachment and message. Attempts to store
objects larger than this are rejected. The upper limit is 2G, imposed by
Exchange protocols.
.br
Default: \fI64M\fP
.TP
\fBmax_ext_rule_length\fP
Default: \fI510K\fP
.TP
\fBmax_mail_num\fP
The maximum number of mails that a mailbox is allowed to have.
.br
Default: \fI1000000\fP
.TP
\fBmax_rcpt_num\fP
The maximum number of recipients that an e-mail is allowed to have.
.br
Default: \fI256\fP
.TP
\fBrop_debug\fP
Log every incoming OXCROP call and the return code of the operation in a
minimal fashion. Level 1 emits ROPs with a failure return code, level 2 emits
all ROPs. Note the daemon log level needs to be "debug" (6), too.
.br
Default: \fI0\fP
.TP
\fBsmtp_server_ip\fP
SMTP server hostname or address to contact for outgoing mail.
.br
Default: \fI::1\fP
.TP
\fBsmtp_server_port\fP
SMTP server TCP port number to connect to for outgoing mail.
.br
Default: \fI25\fP
.TP
\fBsubmit_command\fP
Default: \fI/usr/bin/php /usr/share/gromox/sa/submit.php
.TP
\fBx500_org_name\fP
Default: (unspecified)
.SH Files
.IP \(bu 4
\fIdata_file_path\fP/notify_bounce/: templates for read/nonread notification
mails sent to originators
.IP \(bu 4
\fIdata_file_path\fP/msgchg_grouping/\fI*\fP.txt
.SH Outlook notes
Outlook can be started with the \fB/rpcinfo\fP command-line parameter to
display a status table about the RPC connections it has open. Alternatively,
one can Ctrl-MouseBtn3 (right button) on the status tray icon to call up a
context menu, from which "Connection status..." can be selected for the same.
.SH Signals
When SIGUSR1 is received by this module, it will dump an overview of current
EMSMDB sessions to the configured log device (stderr/journal by default).
EMSMDB sessions are not linked to any one HTTP connection in particular,
and multiple HTTP connections may exercise one session.
.SH Normative references
.IP \(bu 4
DCERPC / C706: Technical Standard DCE 1.1: Remote Procedure Call by The Open
Group, 1997
.IP \(bu 4
MS-OXCRPC: Wire Format Protocol. This is the document for the EMSMDB RPC
interface.
.IP \(bu 4
MS-OXCROPS: Remote Operations List and Encoding Protocol.
.SH See also
\fBgromox\fP(7), \fBhttp\fP(8gx)
