.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0 or-later
.\" SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2021-2022 grommunio GmbH
.TH exmdb_local 4gx "" "Gromox" "Gromox admin reference"
.SH Name
exmdb_local \(em LDA hook plugin that offers a exmdb_provider(4gx) client
with a C API
.SH Description
An LDA hook plugin for delivery(8gx) which places mail into a store by
connecting to a exmdb_provider(4gx) service.
.SH Configuration directives
The usual config file location is /etc/gromox/exmdb_local.cfg.
.TP
\fBalarm_interval\fP
Default: \fI30min\fP
.TP
\fBautoreply_silence_window\fP
-> See gromox.cfg(5) manpage instead!
.TP
\fBcache_scan_interval\fP
Interval in which to scan /var/lib/gromox/queue/cache.
.br
Default: 3min
.TP
\fBdefault_charset\fP
Default: \fIwindows-1252\fP
.TP
\fBexmdb_connection_num\fP
Default: \fI5\fP
.TP
\fBfailure_times_for_alarm\fP
Default: \fI10\fP
.TP
\fBinterval_for_failure_statistic\fP
Default: \fI1hour\fP
.TP
\fBlda_twostep_ruleproc\fP
If set to \fI1\fP, an alternate rule processor codebase will be used which
supports cross-store moves and OOF condition but (at this time) no delegation,
or autoreply.
.br
Default: \fI0\fP
.TP
\fBresponse_audit_capacity\fP
Keep track of at most this many {From address, To address} pairs for bounce
reports in memory.
.br
Default: \fI1000\fP
.TP
\fBresponse_interval\fP
If a bounce report message for a delivery failure or operational failure is to
be generated, that return message will be suppressed if another report for the
given {From, To} address pair was produced within the given time period
previously.
.br
Default: \fI3min\fP
.TP
\fBretrying_times\fP
Default: \fI30\fP
.TP
\fBx500_org_name\fP
Default: (unspecified)
.SH Files
.IP \(bu 4
\fIconfig_file_path\fP/exmdb_list.txt: exmdb multiserver selection map, see
exmdb_provider(4gx) for details.
.IP \(bu 4
\fIdata_file_path\fP/local_bounce/: response templates for when mail cannot be
delivered
.SH See also
\fBgromox\fP(7), \fBdelivery\fP(8gx), \fBexmdb_provider\fP(4gx)
