.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0 or-later
.\" SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2021-2022 grommunio GmbH
.TH gromox\-mkprivate 8 "" "Gromox" "Gromox admin reference"
.SH Name
gromox\-mkprivate \(em Tool for creating a blank private store
.SH Synopsis
\fBgromox\-mkprivate\fP [\fB\-Uv\fP] [\fB\-T\fP \fItemplate_dir\fP] [\fB\-c\fP
\fIconfig\fP] [\fB\-f\fP] \fIusername\fP
.SH Description
mkprivate is used to generate the exchange.sqlite3 file for a private store.
mkprivate directly operates on the filesystem, which has implications. First,
the program ought to be executed on the correct homeserver in case a
multi-server Gromox installation is used. Second, there is no coordination with
exmdb_provider(4gx), and exmdb_provider might continue using file descriptors
opened earlier, working with the old copy of the mailbox, or get confused
because e.g. a WAL file no longer matches the sqlite db. Ideally, you would use
something like `gromox\-mbop \-u ... ( freeze ) ( unload )` to make
exmdb_provider close the mailbox before resetting it. Even then, services that
build on top of exmdb, such as exchange_emsmdb(4gx) or zcore(8gx), may also get
confused when the mailbox (now as an abstract object rather than a concrete
file descriptor) or any key characteristics like PR_STORE_RECORD_KEY.
.SH Options
.TP
\fB\-T\fP \fIpath\fP
This option can be used to override the built-in data path
for folder name translations and prepoulated named properties.
.br
Default: \fI/usr/share/gromox\fP
.TP
\fB\-U\fP
Rather than creating the SQLite file, upgrade it. (The \-f option has no
effect.) mkprivate does not coordinate with exmdb_provider(4gx) and data
corruption is possible if both try to edit the file at the same time. You
should let exmdb_provider(4gx) do upgrades instead, via the
"exmdb_schema_upgrades" directive, or at the very least, stop
http(8gx)/exmdb_provider when using mkprivate \-U.
.TP
\fB\-c\fP \fIconfig\fP
Read configuration directives from the given file. If this option is not
specified, /etc/gromox/mysql_adaptor.cfg will be read for MySQL connection
parameters if that file exists.
.TP
\fB\-f\fP
Force overwrite when an existing SQLite database is detected for the user.
By default, mkprivate will not touch exchange.sqlite3.
.TP
\fB\-v\fP
Turn on verbose mode for \-U.
.TP
\fB\-\-create\-old\fP
Create blank initial database using version 0. (This can be used for testing
the upgrade procedure.)
.TP
\fB\-\-integrity\fP
Perform SQLite integrity check, either standalone or, if \-U is also given,
as part of an upgrade.
.TP
\fB\-?\fP
Display option summary.
.SH Files
.IP \(bu 4
\fIdata_file_path\fP/folder_names.txt: Translations for essential folders in a
message store.
.IP \(bu 4
\fIdata_file_path\fP/propnames.txt: Initial set of named properties to add to
the new private store.
.IP \(bu 4
\fI/var/lib/gromox/...\fP/exmdb/exchange.sqlite3: MAPI object database.
.SH See also
\fBgromox\fP(7), \fBgromox\-mkmidb\fP(8), \fBgromox\-mkpublic\fP(8),
\fBmysql_adaptor\fP(4gx)
