.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0 or-later
.\" SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2024 grommunio GmbH
.TH gromox\-exm2eml 8 "" "Gromox" "Gromox admin reference"
.SH Name
gromox\-exm2eml \(em Utility to export Gromox messages to various formats
.SH Synopsis
\fBgromox\-exm2eml \-u\fP \fIuser@domain.example\fP
[\fIfolder_id\fP\fB:\fP]\fImessage_id\fP
.PP
\fBgromox\-exm2ical \-u\fP \fIuser@domain.example\fP
[\fIfolder_id\fP\fB:\fP]\fImessage_id\fP
.PP
\fBgromox\-exm2vcf \-u\fP \fIuser@domain.example\fP
[\fIfolder_id\fP\fB:\fP]\fImessage_id\fP
.PP
\fBgromox\-exm2mt \-u\fP \fIuser@domain.example\fP
[\fIfolder_id\fP\fB:\fP]\fImessage_id\fP >file.mt
.PP
\fBgromox\-exm2tnef \-u\fP \fIuser@domain.example\fP
[\fIfolder_id\fP\fB:\fP]\fImessage_id\fP >file.tnef
.SH Description
gromox\-exm2eml reads one message from an exmdb information store and exports
it as Internet Mail (RFC 5322), iCalendar (RFC 5545), vCard (RFC 6350), the
Gromox mailbox transfer format (cf. gromox-mt2exm) or TNEF.
.PP
When \fIfolder_id\fP is specified, exm2eml validates that the message is in
that particular folder.
.PP
An alternate way to get an EML representation is using grommunio-web's "Export
as > EML file(s)" function from the context menu of a mail item.
.SH Options
.TP
\fB\-Y\fP \fIvalue\fP
If set to 1, allday events are emitted as so-called floating dates.
If set to 0 however, allday events are emitted as precise-time events.
.br
Default: 1
\fB\-p\fP
Show properties in detail (enhances \fB\-t\fP).
.TP
\fB\-t\fP
As the source message is read, print a diagnostic tree view of the MAPI
properties to stderr.
.TP
\fB\-u\fP [\fIuser\fP]\fB@\fIdomin.example\fP
Source mail store from which to load the message from. For the public folder of
a domain, leave out the local part, i.e. use \fB@\fP\fIdomain.example\fP.
.SH See also
\fBgromox\fP(7), \fBgromox\-eml2mt\fP(8)
