.TH gromox\-eml2mt 8gx "" "Gromox" "Gromox admin reference"
.SH Name
gromox\-eml2mt \(em Utility to import Internet Mail messages,
iCalendar and vCard objects
.SH Synopsis
\fBgromox\-eml2mt\fP [\fB\-Ppt\fP] \fIfile.eml\fP[...]
.PP
\fBgromox\-ical2mt\fP [\fB\-Ppt\fP] \fIfile.ics\fP[...]
.PP
\fBgromox\-vcf2mt\fP [\fB\-Ppt\fP] \fIfile.vcf\fP[...]
.SH Description
gromox\-eml2mt reads one or more RFC5322-formatted e-mail messages and
re-exports the data in a Gromox-specific mailbox transfer format to stdout for
consumption by pipe by the gromox-mt2exm(8gx) program.
.PP
When called as gromox\-ical2mt, the input is treated as RFC5545-formatted
calendaring and scheduling objects (.ics).
.PP
When called as gromox\-vcf2mt, the input is treated as RFC4770/6530-formatted
vCard objects (.vcf).
.PP
eml2mt will resolve email addresses to Gromox objects already, so the emitted
data stream should be consumed by an mt2exm invocation on the \fIsame\fP Gromox
cluster.
.SH Options
.TP
\fB\-\-ical\fP
Treat all file arguments as iCalendar input. This is the default if the program
was invoked as gromox\-ical2mt. Messages will be anchored to the calendar
folder.
.TP
\fB\-\-mail\fP
Treat all file arguments as Internet Mail input. This is the default if the
program was invoked as gromox\-eml2mt. Messages remain unanchored, and you can
use the mt2exm \-B option.
.TP
\fB\-\-vcard\fP
Treat all file arguments as vCard input. This is the default if the program was
invoked as gromox\-vcf2mt. Messages will be anchored to the contacts folder.
.TP
\fB\-\-oneoff\fP
Do not resolve email addresses to EX addresses, but to ONEOFF instead. This
way, streams created by eml2mt can be imported into \fIother\fP Gromox
clusters that do not have the same user set.
.TP
\fB\-P\fP
Enable super-pedantic mode when parsing VCARDs and reject everything that is
not recognized. (Not recommended)
.TP
\fB\-p\fP
Show properties in detail (enhances \fB\-t\fP).
.TP
\fB\-t\fP
Show a diagnostic tree view of the source data as it is being read.
.SH Examples
Import of an RFC5322 message (sometimes with .eml file extension) to drafts:
.PP
gromox\-eml2mt msg.eml | gromox\-mt2exm \-u target@mailbox.de \-B drafts
.PP
Import of calendar objects:
.PP
gromox\-ical2mt meeting.ics | gromox\-mt2exm \-u target@mailbox.de
.SH See also
\fBgromox\fP(7), \fBgromox\-mt2exm\fP(8gx)
