.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0 or-later
.\" SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2022–2024 grommunio GmbH
.TH gromox\-mbop 8 "" "Gromox" "Gromox admin reference"
.SH Name
gromox\-mbop \(em Mailbox operations utility
.SH Synopsis
\fBgromox\-mbop\fP [\fB\-d\fP \fImbox\fP|\fB\-u\fP
[\fIrecipient\fP]\fB@domain.example\fP] \fIcommand\fP [command-args...]
.SH Global options
.TP
\fB\-c\fP
Continuous operation mode. If a command in a series (e.g. with foreach.*)
fails, do not stop.
.TP
\fB\-d\fP \fI/var/lib/gromox/user/1/2\fP
Lookup the mailbox parameters from the associated filesystem location.
.TP
\fB\-u\fP [\fIuser\fP]\fB@example.com\fP
Lookup the mailbox parameters by the associated username. (To access a public
store of a domain, leave out the local part, i.e. use
\fB@\fP\fIexample.com\fP.)
.TP
\fB\-v\fP
Verbose mode.
.SH Commands
.IP \(bu 4
\fB(\fP command1 c1args \fB) (\fP command2 c2args \fB)\fP: command
chaining
.IP \(bu 4
cgkreset: reset synchronization state (PR_CHANGE_KEY, PR_PREDECESSOR_LIST)
.IP \(bu 4
clear\-photo: delete user picture
.IP \(bu 4
clear\-profile: delete user's PHP-MAPI profile
.IP \(bu 4
clear\-rwz: delete IPM.RuleOrganizer FAI messages from the inbox
.IP \(bu 4
delmsg: issue "delete_message" RPCs for a mailbox
.IP \(bu 4
echo\-maildir: return maildir (for use with foreach.here.*)
.IP \(bu 4
echo\-username: return username (for use with foreach.*)
.IP \(bu 4
emptyfld: remove objects from folders
.IP \(bu 4
foreach.*: iterate over security objects
.IP \(bu 4
freeze: halt all operations on a mailbox
.IP \(bu 4
get\-freebusy: test FB schedule lookups
.IP \(bu 4
get\-photo: retrieve user image from store and print to stdout
.IP \(bu 4
get\-websettings, get\-websettings\-persistent, get\-websettings\-recipients:
retrieve settings for grommunio-web
.IP \(bu 4
ping: cause a mailbox's sqlite files to be opened
.IP \(bu 4
purge\-datafiles: remove orphaned attachments/content files from disk
.IP \(bu 4
purge\-softdelete: remove soft-deleted items from a folder
.IP \(bu 4
recalc\-sizes: recalculate store size
.IP \(bu 4
set\-locale: reset UI language and special folders' names
.IP \(bu 4
set\-photo: read user image from stdin and save to store
.IP \(bu 4
set\-websettings, set\-websettings\-persistent, set\-websettings\-recipients:
read new grommunio-web settings from stdin and save to store
.IP \(bu 4
thaw: unfreeze a mailbox
.IP \(bu 4
unload: issue the "unload_store" RPC for a mailbox
.IP \(bu 4
vacuum: issue the "vacuum" RPC for a mailbox
.SH Further documentation
.IP \(bu 4
SQLite recovery: https://docs.grommunio.com/kb/sqlite.html
.SH Command chaining
\fB(\fP \fIsubcommand1 sub1args\fP... \fB)\fP...
.PP
It is possible to run multiple mbop commands in sequence for a user. For the
option parser to recognize when a command ends and the next one starts, each
subcommand invocation shall be wrapped in \fB(\fP and \fB)\fP. This becomes
even more handy in conjunction with the foreach.* pseudocommand.
.PP
Subcommands reading data from standard input (e.g. set\-photo) cannot be
realiably used with chaining, because stdin would be fully consumed the first
time around and (...) does not cache the input for any subcommands.
.SS Examples
Run two commands for a user: gromox\-mbop \-u a@b.de \\( purge\-softdelete -r /
\\) \\( purge\-datafiles \\)
.SH cgkreset
cgkreset resets Change Numbers on all folder and message objects, PR_CHANGE_KEY
and PR_PREDECESSOR_LIST values. The use cases for cgkreset are:
.IP \(bu 4
when the mailbox has CN corruption and Incremental Change Synchronization (by
e.g. Outlook or grommunio-sync) is hampered (e.g. message flags/color updates
not transferred)
.IP \(bu 4
when the mailbox has CN corruption and gromox-http/emsmdb has thrown the error
"INSERT INTO messages ... UNIQUE constraint failed: messages.change_number"
.PP
After execution, .ost files referencing the reset mailbox should be deleted.
`gromox\-mbop cgkreset` is different from the earlier
`/usr/libexec/gromox/cgkrepair` in that cgkreset does not make any attempts to
keep synchronization state; it just resets everything, unconditionally. On the
other hand, cgkrepair (now deleted) was unable to get to all fields that may
need resetting.
.SH clear\-photo
The clear\-photo command will delete the user picture. Note that, when there is
no mailbox-level profile picture set, Gromox server processes may serve an
image from another source, e.g. LDAP.
.SH clear\-profile
Similar to MSMAPI, PHP-MAPI keeps a MAPI profile which contains a store list
and also the settings for grommunio-web. The clear\-profile command will delete
the copy of this data stored in exmdb. Note that zcore(8) may still hold a copy
of the MAPI profile in memory and could write that back to exmdb, nullifying
the effect of the clear\-profile command. Also, if the store list is absent,
a new one will implicitly be created when PHP-MAPI/zcore is used.
.SH clear\-rwz
Deletes IPM.RuleOrganizer FAI messages from the inbox.
.SH delmsg
.SS Synopsis
\fBdelmsg \-f\fP \fIfolder_spec\fP
[\fImsgid\fP...]
.SS Description
This command hard-deletes messages from a store, including issuing proper
PR_CHANGE_KEY metadata updates for the sake of Cached Mode clients.
.PP
The message IDs taken as arguments on the command-line should be
of the GC-value form, i.e. as they appear in the the SQLite database.
(For details about GCV, see glossary.rst in the source distribution.)
.SS Subcommand options
.TP
\fB-f\fP \fIfolder_spec\fP
The folder from which to delete the messages. See section "Folder
specification" below for syntax details of \fIfolder_spec\fP. (If a msgid is
specified which is not located in the particular folder, that message will not
be deleted.)
.TP
\fB\-\-soft\fP
Perform a soft deletion.
.SH emptyfld
.SS Synopsis
\fBemptyfld\fP [\fB\-MRa\fP] [\fB\-t\fP \fIage\fP] [\fB\-\-soft\fP]
\fIfolder_spec\fP...
.SS Description
This command deletes objects from one or more folders. emptyfld is normally a
one-shot server-side operation. The use of \-R,\-t is not covered by the
existing network protocols, which means that, if either of these options is
used, the mbop client program performs the desired recursion and/or timestamp
matching locally. This incurs multiple round trips to the server and so takes a
bit more time than a "trivial" emptyfld call.
.PP
Just to spell it out again explicitly, emptyfld can be in one of three modes:
.IP \(bu 4
server-assisted operations:
.RS 4
.IP \(bu 4
clear contents and/or FAI, no time conditions, no recursion
.IP \(bu 4
clear contents and/or FAI, no time conditions, nuke subfolders (recursion
barred)
.RE
.IP \(bu 4
client-side traversal:
.RS 4
.IP \(bu 4
clear contents and/or FAI, with or without evaluating timestamps, with or
without recursion into subfolders, with or without subfolder deletion if empty
.RE
.SS Subcommand options
.TP
\fB\-M\fP
Exempt normal messages from deletion.
.TP
\fB\-R\fP
Recurse into subfolders.
.TP
\fB\-a\fP
Select associated messages (FAI) for deletion.
.TP
\fB\-t\fP \fItimespec\fP
Limit deletion to messages which have a last modification timestamp older than
\fItimespec\fP. See gromox(7), section "Duration specification" for timespec's
syntax.
.TP
\fB\-\-delempty\fP
If, after message deletion, any subfolder is empty, delete it.
.TP
\fB\-\-nuke\-folders\fP
Unconditionally delete subfolders outright. For obvious reasons, deleting
subfolders disables recursion via \-R (because when they are deleted,
there is nothing left to recurse into).
.TP
\fB\-\-soft\fP
Switch from hard deletion to soft deletion.
.SS Soft deletion notes
Soft deletion sets the soft-delete flag (also called "hidden" in Exchange) on
messages and/or folders. Soft-deleted objects can be restored/unhidden by the
user. Users are technically empowered to perform hard deletions as well, but
most mail clients do not offer a user control (e.g. checkbox widget) for it,
requiring the use of diagnostic utilities like MFCMAPI or gromox\-mbop instead.
.PP
When a folder's soft-delete flag changes, the messages and subfolders within
are left untouched; their soft-delete flag does not change. In fact, this
behaves exactly like setting a directory in the file system to hidden.
.SS Examples
.IP \(bu 4
Clear one folder's contents like Outlook/grommunio-web:
gromox\-mbop \-u a@b.de emptyfld \-\-soft DRAFTS
.IP \(bu 4
Outlook/grommunio-web behave differently when clearing trash! The equivalent
mbop command is:
gromox\-mbop \-u a@b.de emptyfld \-\-soft \-\-nuke\-folders DELETED
.IP \(bu 4
Deletion of objects in trash only if untouched for a while:
gromox\-mbop \-u abc@example.com emptyfld \-Rt 1week \-\-soft DELETED
.SH foreach.*
.SS Synopsis
\fBforeach.\fP\fIfilter\fP[\fB\.\fP\fIfilter\fP]* [\fB\-j\fP \fIjobs\fP]
\fIcommand\fP [command-args...]
.SS Description
foreach.* is a pseudoaction for running another subcommands that gromox-mbop
offers (e.g. ping, unload, purge\-softdelete, etc.) for a number of users.
Subcommands reading data from standard input (e.g. set\-photo) cannot be
realiably used with foreach, because stdin would be fully consumed the first
time around and foreach does not cache the input for any subcommands.
.SS Filters
.IP \(bu 4
secobj: limit to objects that can be used in ACLs
.IP \(bu 4
user: regular users
.IP \(bu 4
dl: distribution lists (groups)
.IP \(bu 4
sharedmb: shared mailboxes
.IP \(bu 4
room: room objects
.IP \(bu 4
equipment: equipment objects
.IP \(bu 4
contact: GAB contact objects
.IP \(bu 4
active: active entities
.IP \(bu 4
susp: entities marked as "suspended"
.IP \(bu 4
deleted: entities marked as "deleted"
.IP \(bu 4
mb: entity has a mailbox directory defined
.IP \(bu 4
here: entity has current host as homeserver (compares `hostname \-\-fqdn` where
mbop is run with the SQL.servers.hostname column)
.PP
There is no "all" filter. Security objects and Contacts are so vastly different
that it just does not make sense to operate on them in the same run.
.SS Options
.TP
\fB\-j\fP \fIjobs\fP
Maximum parallel execution factor. (Experimental.) 0 means autosizing. Only
ping/vacuum/unload support this, and the option is otherwise ignored. Use
external tools like parallel(1) or make(1) for guaranteed parallelization.
.br
Default: \fI1\fP
.SS Examples
.IP \(bu 4
Hard-delete all objects which are currently softdeleted: gromox\-mbop
foreach.mh.ere purge\-softdelete -r /
.SH get\-freebusy
.SS Synopsis
\fBget\-freebusy\fP [\fB\-a\fP \fIstart_time\fP] [\fB\-b\fP \fIend_time\fP]
[\fB\-x\fP \fIusername\fP]
.SS Description
Runs the get_freebusy routine on the mailbox specified by the global \-d/\-u
option(s) [or the mailbox currently in scope when using foreach.*], and asks
for free/busy status within the given time period.
.SS Options
.TP
\fB\-a\fP {\fIyyyy-mm-dd\fP\fBT\fP\fIhh:mm:ss\fP|\fIunixtime\fP}
Left end of the timeframe to query. Unixtime means seconds since the epoch (and
is necessarily in UTC), whereas the calendar-based time is read as localtime
(so, respecting the TZ environment variable or /etc/localtime).
.TP
\fB\-b\fP {\fIyyyy-mm-dd\fP\fBT\fP\fIhh:mm:ss\fP|\fIunixtime\fP}
Right end of the timeframe to query.
.TP
\fB\-x\fP \fIusername\fP
Sets the actor of the operation. This is used for permission checks.
If the \-x option is omitted, the action is performed as the mailbox
owner.
.SH freeze
.SS Synopsis
\fBfreeze\fP [\fB\-\-no\-wait\fP]
.SS Description
Tell the Information Store to halt all new operations on the mailbox.
Outstanding operations that are currently in processing are allowed to
complete. New requests for the mailbox will be rejected. Special requests like
(mbop's) \fIunload\fP or \fIthaw\fP are nevertheless allowed in frozen state,
for obvious reasons.
.SS Options
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-wait\fP
Do not wait for outstanding operations to complete.
.SH get\-photo
.SS Synopsis
\fBget\-photo >\fP\fIsomefile\fP
.SS Description
Reads the user photo from the store and dumps it to stdout. If stdout is a
terminal, no output is shown, in which case, if stderr is (also) a terminal,
a summary will be shown there.
.SH get\-websettings
.SS Synopsis
\fBget\-websettings >\fP\fIfile.json\fP
.br
\fBget\-websettings\-persistent >\fP\fIfile.json\fP
.br
\fBget\-websettings\-recipients >\fP\fIautocomplete.json\fP
.SS Description
Reads various grommunio-web settings from the store and dumps it to stdout.
.SH ping
Causes the respective mailbox to be opened by the server. (Any request to the
information storage server causes the respective mailbox to be opened; and ping
is technically just a no-op request type.)
.SH purge\-datafiles
The "purge\-datafiles" RPC makes exmdb_provider remove attachment and content
files from disk that are no longer referenced by any message.
.SH purge\-softdelete
.SS Synopsis
\fBpurge-softdelete\fP [\fB\-r\fP] [\fB\-t\fP \fItimespec\fP]
\fIfolder_spec\fP...
.SS Description
This command hard-deletes all messages from a folder which are marked as
soft-deleted. (The entire mailbox can be processed by specifying the root
folder plus the \-r option.)
.SS Subcommand options
.TP
\fB\-r\fP
Recurse into subfolders.
.TP
\fB\-t\fP \fItimespec\fP
Specifies the minimum time to the last modification that soft-deleted messages
must have before they are hard-deleted. See gromox(7), section "Duration
specification" for timespec's syntax.
.br
Default: \fI0\fP (immediate deletion)
.SS Examples
.IP \(bu 4
To process an entire mailbox and wipe everything older than a few days:
gromox\-mbop \-u abc@example.com purge\-softdelete \-r / \-t 10d
.SH recalc\-sizes
Recalculates the store size.
.SH set\-locale
.SS Synopsis
\fBset\-locale\fP [\fB\-v\fP] \-l\fP \fIid\fP
.SS Description
First, the set\-locale operation changes the "preferred language" setting for
the user account. This affects the display of user interfaces like
grommunio-web, and also affects the folder language selection when a mailbox is
truncated/re-created with gromox\-mkprivate(8).
.PP
Second, provided Gromox has default folder name translations for the desired
locale, set\-locale also resets the display names of the mailbox's built-in
folders.
.SS Options
.TP
\fB\-l\fP \fId\fP
A locale identifier in the form of \fIlanguage\fP\fB_\fP[\fIterritory\fP],
where language is a ISO 639-1 code and territory is a ISO 3166-1 Alpha 2 code,
e.g. ja_JP, pt_BR, pt_PT. This is like the well-known XPG/POSIX locale
identifier syntax
<https://www.gnu.org/software/libc/manual/html_node/Locale-Names.html>, but no
Codeset and no Modifier should be used in Gromox.
.TP
\fB\-v\fP
Verbose mode. (Same as global \-v.)
.SS Examples
.IP \(bu 4
gromox\-mbop \-u abc@example.com set\-locale \-l ja_JP
.SH set\-photo
.SS Synopsis
\fBset\-photo <\fP\fIsomefile\fP
.SS Description
Reads a new user photo from standard input and writes it to the store.
.SH set\-websettings
.SS Synopsis
\fBset\-websettings <\fP\fIfile.json\fP
.br
\fBset\-websettings\-persistent <\fP\fIfile.json\fP
.br
\fBset\-websettings\-recipients <\fP\fIautocomplete.json\fP
.SS Description
Reads new grommunio-web settings from standard input and writes it to the
store.
.SH unload
Normally, exmdb_provider(4gx) keeps stores open for up to
exmdb_provider.cfg:cache_interval. The "unload_store" RPC to
exmdb_provider(4gx) causes the sqlite database (in
/var/lib/gromox/.../exmdb/exchange.sqlite3) to be closed. Any subsequent RPC
may reopen it, though. The unload RPC is useful after a mailbox was deleted
and/or reinitialized with grommunio-admin-api or tools like
gromox-mkprivate(8)/gromox-mkpublic(8). [zcore also has store state in memory.
This would also need to be purged \(em but there is no RPC for such action at
this time.] unload will fail to succeed if there is still a client connected to
the mailbox via a notification channel.
.SH vacuum
Issue the SQLite ".vacuum" command on the user's exchange.sqlite3 file in an
attempt to reclaim unused disk space and shrink it. This operation can
potentially run for quite some time, during which the mailbox is inaccessible.
.SH Folder specification
\fIfolder_spec\fP must conform to one of three forms. Either:
.IP \(bu 4
a numeric identifer (e.g. 13, 0xd)
.IP \(bu 4
a folder path starting with a slash, optionally followed by a slash-separated
sequence of subordinate folder names
.IP \(bu 4
a folder path starting with a fixed symbolic name, optionally followed by a
slash-separated sequence of subordinate folder names
.PP
The backslash may be used as a hierarchy separator instead; in any case, the
chosen separator must be used consistently in the entire path.
.PP
The recognized strings are: CALENDAR, COMMON_VIEWS, CONFLICTS, CONTACTS,
DEFERRED_ACTION, DELETED (TRASH, WASTEBASKET), DRAFT, FINDER, INBOX,
IPM_SUBTREE, JOURNAL, JUNK, LOCAL_FAILURES, NOTES, OUTBOX, SENT,
SERVER_FAILURES, SHORTCUTS, SYNC_ISSUES, TASKS, VIEWS.
.PP
The purpose of these names is for referencing a built-in folder irrespective of
its assigned name, which is dependent upon translation settings. The symbolic
names can be used with private stores only; there are no names defined for
public folder contents at this time. There is also no parsing support for
slashes in folder names. The slash character is always treated as a hierarchy
separator.
.SS Examples
.IP \(bu 4
Using the MAPI root: /Top of Information Store/Sent Items/2022
.IP \(bu 4
Using a symbolic name: IPM_SUBTREE/Sent Items/2022
.IP \(bu 4
Using a symbolic name: SENT/2022
.IP \(bu 4
Referencing a folder with a slash can be done by using backslash as the
hierarchy separator: SENT\\Winter break 2022/2023
.PP
The MAPI root is not visible in most clients. MUAs like Outlook and
grommunio-web show hierarchy starting at IPM_SUBTREE only.
.SH See also
\fBgromox\fP(7)
