.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0 or-later
.\" SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2021-2022 grommunio GmbH
.TH gromox\-mkmidb 8 "" "Gromox" "Gromox admin reference"
.SH Name
gromox\-mkmidb \(em Tool for creating a blank message index database
.SH Synopsis
\fBgromox\-mkmidb\fP [\fB\-Uv\fP] [\fB\-c\fP \fIconfig\fP] [\fB\-fP\fP]
\fIusername\fP
.SH Description
mkmidb is used to generate the midb.sqlite3 file for a private or public store,
which is used by midb(8gx) to keep additional IMAP/POP3-specific state about
the mailbox and its contents. mkmidb directly operates on the filesystem, which
has implications. First, the program ought to be executed on the correct
homeserver in case a multi-server Gromox installation is used. Second, there is
no coordination with midb(8gx), and midb might continue using file descriptors
opened earlier, working with the old copy of the mailbox, or get confused
because e.g. a WAL file no longer matches the sqlite db. Ideally, you would use
something like `gromox\-mbop \-u ... midb-unload` to make midb close the
mailbox before resetting it.
.SH Options
.TP
\fB\-U\fP
Rather than creating the SQLite file, upgrade it. (The \-f option has no
effect.) mkmidb does not coordinate with midb(8gx) and data corruption is
possible if both try to edit the file at the same time. You should let
midb(8gx) do upgrades instead, via the "midb_schema_upgrades" directive, or
at the very least, stop midb when using mkmidb \-U.
.TP
\fB\-c\fP \fIconfig\fP
Read configuration directives from the given file. If this option is not
specified, /etc/gromox/mysql_adaptor.cfg will be read for MySQL connection
parameters if that file exists.
.TP
\fB\-f\fP
Force overwrite when an existing SQLite database is detected for the user.
By default, mkmidb will not touch midb.sqlite3.
.TP
\fB\-v\fP
Turn on verbose mode for \-U.
.TP
\fB\-\-create\-old\fP
Create blank initial database using version 0. (This can be used for testing
the upgrade procedure.)
.TP
\fB\-\-integrity\fP
Perform SQLite integrity check, either standalone or, if \-U is also given,
as part of an upgrade.
.TP
\fB\-?\fP
Display option summary.
.SH Files
.IP \(bu 4
\fI/var/lib/gromox/...\fP/exmdb/midb.sqlite3: Message index database for IMAP.
.SH See also
\fBgromox\fP(7), \fBgromox\-mkprivate\fP(8), \fBmidb\fP(8gx),
\fBmysql_adaptor\fP(4gx)
