.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0 or-later
.\" SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2020-2022 grommunio GmbH
.TH gromox.cfg 5 "" "Gromox" "Gromox admin reference"
.SH Name
gromox.cfg \(em Central configuration file for Gromox services
.SH Description
The common configuration file utilized by all services. Historically, each
service had separate configuration files, but the number of directives that
needed explicit configuration were reduced over time to the point that there
were too many distinct files for little value, and so, gromox.cfg came to be.
.SH Configuration directives
.TP
\fBautoreply_silence_window\fP
If an autoreply message (other than a bounce report, e.g. out-of-office) is to
be generated, that return message will be suppressed if another autoreply for
the given {From, To} address pair was produced within the given time period
previously. (Unlike the response_audit_capacity directive, autoreply pairs are
stored persistently, in the message database.)
.br
Default: \fI1day\fP
.TP
\fBbackfill_transport_headers\fP
Try to fill the PR_TRANSPORT_HEADERS property when messages are submitted.
Turning this option on requires extra storage (usually between 0.5KB and 1KB
per sent message). Transport headers for sent messages can be generated on the
fly from the regular MAPI message data structures e.g. via gromox-exm2eml(8)
for analysis, so unless there is a need to retain the results from older
generator versions, you should leave this off.
.br
Default: \fIoff\fP
.TP
\fBbounce_postmaster\fP
This directive defines the Envelope-From and From addresses for
system-generated bounce messages such as Non-Delivery-Reports (autoresponse
messages about e.g. mailbox being full, or a target email address being
invalid). RFC-5321-5322-consuming components like SMTP, IMAP and EAS want to
have an SMTP-looking address in this field. Preferably, it should point to the
administrator's mailbox (or an alias thereto).
.br
When the value set here has no domain part and ends in just '@', the domain is
taken from a re-resolution of the system hostname. (At minimum, the FQDN to the
system hostname should be in /etc/hosts.)
.br
Default: \fIpostmaster@\fP
.TP
\fBexmdb_client_rpc_timeout\fP
If the execution of an RPC takes longer than the specified time, the client
will sever the connection and return an error to the calling program. The value
cannot be lower than 4s. The special value 0 disabled RPC timeout checking.
.br
Default: \fI0\fP
.SH See also
\fBgromox\fP(7)
