.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0 or-later
.\" SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2022 grommunio GmbH
.TH gromox\-dscli 8gx "" "Gromox" "Gromox admin reference"
.SH Name
gromox\-dscli \(em AutoDiscover command line utility
.SH Synopsis
\fBPASS=\fP\fIsecret\fP \fBgromox\-dscli\fP [\fB\-H\fP \fIhttps://host/path\fP]
[\fB\-h\fP \fIhostonly\fP] [\fB\-u\fP \fIemailaddr\fP]
.SH Description
This utility facilitates sending/receiving AutoDiscover request/responses
to/from a server for testing.
.SH Options
.TP
\fB\-H\fP \fIhttps://host/Autodiscover/Autodiscover.xml\fP
The full URL for making the request. Useful when the request URI is
non-standard. Use of \-H disables DNS SRV lookup.
.br
Default: \fIhttps://localhost/Autodiscover/Autodiscover.xml\fP
.TP
\fB\-e\fP \fIuser@domain.de\fP
Username to send along in the request.
.br
Default: (none)
.TP
\fB\-h\fP \fIhost\fP
The hostname to use for making the request. From this, the full URL is
constructed as "https://\fIhost\fP/Autodiscover/Autodiscover.xml". Use of \-h
disabled DNS SRV lookup.
.br
Default: derive from \-e argument, otherwise (\-x) \fIlocalhost\fP
.TP
\fB\-u\fP \fIusername\fP
Use a distinct username for authentication.
.br
Default: inherit from \-e option
.TP
\fB\-x\fP \fI/o=1234578/ou=Exchange Administrative Group (FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/cn=Recipients/cn=username\fP
LegacyDN field to send along in the request.
.br
Default: (none)
.SH Examples
Discover your store:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
PASS=letmein gromox-dscli -e user@company.at
.fi
.RE
.PP
Test public store discovery:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
PASS=letmein gromox-dscli -e public.folder.root@company.at -u user@company.at
.fi
.RE
.SH Normative references
.IP \(bu 4
MS-OXDISCO: Autodiscover HTTP Service Protocol
.IP \(bu 4
MS-OXDSCLI: Autodiscover Publishing and Lookup Protocol
.SH See also
\fBgromox\fP(7)
