.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0 or-later
.\" SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2020-2022 grommunio GmbH
.TH gromox\-snapshot 8gx "" "Gromox" "Gromox admin reference"
.SH Name
gromox\-snapshot \(em Helper to create snapshots of mailboxes
.SH Synopsis
\fB/usr/libexec/gromox/gromox\-snapshot\fP
.SH Description
gromox\-snapshot calls btrfs(8) or cp(1)/\-\-reflink to create snapshots of the
current state of mailboxes as needed. gromox\-snapshot is meant to be
periodically invoked by a systemd timer (or, failing that, a classic cron job).
The default interval of gromox\-snapshot.timer is hourly.
.PP
The program generates snapshots "for this day" / "for this week" / etc., rather
than snapshots which are at least one day / one week / etc. apart. When the
snapshotter is run periodically, this evens out and is not a concern at all.
.SH Options
The program has no command-line options.
.SH Configuration file
/etc/gromox/snapshot.cfg will be read on startup. It is a trivial key=value
file, with one variable per line.
.TP
\fBretention_days\fP=\fIn\fP
Make daily snapshots and keep them for \fIn\fP days. Use \fI0\fP to
deactivate daily snapshots.
.br
Default: \fI7\fP
.TP
\fBretention_hours\fP=\fIn\fP
Make monthly snapshots and keep them for \fIn\fP months. Use \fI0\fP to
deactivate monthly snapshots.
.br
Default: \fI0\fP
.TP
\fBretention_months\fP=\fIn\fP
Make monthly snapshots and keep them for \fIn\fP months (more precisely,
\fIn\fP*31 days). Use \fI0\fP to deactivate monthly snapshots.
.br
Default: \fI0\fP
.TP
\fBretention_weeks\fP=\fIn\fP
Make weekly snapshots and keep them for \fIn\fP weeks. Use \fI0\fP to
deactivate weekly snapshots.
.br
Default: \fI4\fP
.TP
\fBsubvolume_root\fP
When btrfs is used, this directive specifies the root directory of the nearest
btrfs subvolume. (As of Linux 6.2.1, it is not possible to snapshot arbitrary
directories; it has to be the root of a subvolume. Confer with `btrfs sub list`
to see subvolumes.) Otherwise, this must point to the Gromox data directory.
.br
Default: \fI/var/lib/gromox\fP
.TP
\fBsnapshot_archive\fP
The directory where snapshots (these are subdirectories) will be placed. This
directory needs to be on the same device as the snapshot source
(subvolume_root, see above).
.br
Default: \fI/var/lib/gromox-snapshots\fP
.PP
Each time "category" (days, weeks, etc.) is independently evaluated and
snapshots are always made from the subvolume_root, never from another snapshot.
A weekly snapshot generated on the first day of the week is not strictly equal
to the daily snapshot generated for the same day, as there is technically a
very small time window between individual btrfs commands.
.SH Errors
.IP \(bu 4
Invalid cross-device link: snapshot_archive was not on the same device as
subvolume_root.
.IP \(bu 4
Operation not supported: the filesystem employed on snapshot_archive does not
support reflinks
.SH See also
\fBgromox\fP(7)
