.TH http.cfg 5gx "" "Gromox" "Gromox user reference"
.SH Name
.PP
\fBhttp.cfg\fP \(em configuration file for the http service
.SH Directives
.SS block_interval_auths
.PP
The amount of time a user is blocked from connecting to the service after too
many failed logins.
.PP
Default: \fI1 minute\fP
.SS config_file_path
.PP
Directory where plugin instances will look for their configuration overrides.
.PP
Default: \fI/etc/gromox/http\fP
.SS console_server_ip
.PP
The IPv4 address to expose the management console frontend on.
.PP
Default: \fI127.0.0.1\fP
.SS console_server_port
.PP
The TCP port number to expose the management console frontend on.
.PP
Default: \fI8899\fP
.SS context_average_mem
.PP
Default: \fI256K\fP
.SS context_num
.PP
Default: \fI400\fP
.SS data_file_path
.PP
Directory where plugin instances will look for their data files.
.PP
Default: \fI/usr/share/gromox/http\fP
.SS default_domain
.PP
Default: (inherited from system)
.SS fastcgi_cache_size
.PP
If the HTTP request to a CGI endpoint uses Chunked Transfer Encoding and the
Content-Length field contains a larger value than this limit, the data is
buffered in a file \fI/tmp/http-\fP%d (%d replaced by internal context id).
.PP
Default: \fI256K\fP
.SS fastcgi_exec_timeout
.PP
Maximum execution time for CGI scripts.
.PP
Default: \fI10 minutes\fP
.SS fastcgi_max_size
.PP
If the Content-Length of a HTTP request to a CGI endpoint is larger than this
value, the request is rejected.
.PP
Default: \fI4M\fP
.SS host_id
.PP
The hostname that the server uses to identify itself (e.g. Server: header in
HTTP responses).
.PP
Default: (inherited from system)
.SS hpm_cache_size
.PP
If the HTTP request to a HPM endpoint uses Chunked Transfer Encoding and the
Content-Length field contains a larger value than this limit, the data is
buffered in a file \fI/tmp/http-\fP%d (%d replaced by internal context id).
.PP
Default: \fI512K\fP
.SS hpm_max_size
.PP
If the Content-Length of a HTTP request to a HPM endpoint is larger than this
value, the request is rejected.
.PP
Default: \fI4M\fP
.SS hpm_plugin_ignore_errors
.PP
If set to yes, HPM plugins that fail to load on startup are ignored. If set to
no, the daemon will exit if any plugin cannot be loaded.
.PP
Default: \fIno\fP
.SS hpm_plugin_list
.PP
Path to a text file which lists the filenames of HPM plugins to load, one per
line.
.PP
Default: (unspecified)
.SS http_auth_times
.PP
The number of login tries a user is allowed before the account is blocked.
.PP
Default: \fI10\fP
.SS http_certificate_passwd
.PP
The password to unlock TLS certificates.
.PP
Default: (unset)
.SS http_certificate_path
.PP
Filesystem path to a certificate file for use with encrypted connection. The
complete certificate chain should be present (as there is no other config
directive to pull CA certs in).
.PP
Default: (unset)
.SS http_conn_timeout
.PP
If a HTTP connection stalls for the given period, the connection is terminated.
.PP
Default: \fI3 minutes\fP
.SS http_private_key_path
.PP
Filesystem path to the key file needed to unlock the TLS certificate.
.PP
Default: (unset)
.SS http_support_ssl
.PP
This flag controls whether (or not) the server offers TLS at all. The default
is false because you need a certificate for this first.
.PP
Default: \fIfalse\fP
.SS listen_port
.PP
The TCP port to expose the HTTP protocol service on. (The IP address is fixed
to the wildcard address.)
.PP
Default: \fI80\fP
.SS listen_ssl_port
.PP
The TCP port to expose implicit-TLS HTTP protocol service (HTTPS) on. (The IP
address is fixed to the wildcard address.)
.PP
Default: (unset)
.SS proc_plugin_ignore_errors
.PP
If set to yes, processor plugins that fail to load on startup are ignored. If
set to no, the daemon will exit if any plugin cannot be loaded.
.PP
Default: \fIno\fP
.SS proc_plugin_list
.PP
Path to a text file which lists the filenames of processor plugins to load, one
per line.
.PP
Default: (unspecified)
.SS proc_plugin_path
.PP
Filesystem path for processor plugins.
.PP
Default: \fI/usr/libexec/gromox\fP
.SS request_max_mem
.PP
The maximum hint size for fragmented RPC PDU requests that will be allowed, as
per the DCERPC 1.1 specification section 12.6.3.7 and the MS-RPCE specification
section 2.2.2.6 (in version 17).
.SS running_identity
.PP
An unprivileged user account to switch the process to after startup.
.PP
Default: \fIgromox\fP
.PP
To inhibit the switch, assign the empty value.
.SS service_plugin_ignore_errors
.PP
If set to yes, service plugins that fail to load on startup are ignored. If set
to no, the daemon will exit if any plugin cannot be loaded.
.PP
Default: \fIno\fP
.SS service_plugin_list
.PP
Path to a text file which lists the filenames of service plugins to load,
one per line.
.PP
Default: (unspecified)
.SS service_plugin_path
.PP
Path to a secondary directory where service plugins will be loaded from if a
primary search in standard directories (as per ld.so(8)) was unsuccessful.
.PP
Default: \fI/usr/lib/gromox\fP
.SS tcp_mss_size
.PP
Sets the TCP_MAXSEG socket option with the given MSS value for the listening
socket(s), cf. tcp(7).
.PP
Default: 0 (do not limit the MSS)
.SS thread_charge_num
.PP
The maximum number of connections that each thread is allowed to process.
.PP
Default: \fI20\fP
.SS thread_init_num
.PP
The minimum number of client processing threads to keep around.
.PP
Default: \fI5\fP
.SS user_default_lang
.PP
Default: \fIen\fP
.SH See also
.PP
\fBgromox\fP(7), \fBhttp\fP(8gx)
