.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0 or-later
.\" SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2025 grommunio GmbH
.TH http 8gx "" "Gromox" "Gromox admin reference"
.SH Name
http \(em Protocol handler for HTTP and RPCH
.SH Synopsis
\fBhttp\fP [\fB\-c\fP \fIconfig\fP]
.SH Description
http(8gx) is a trivial HTTP server. It understands the special HTTP methods as
used by RPC-over-HTTP protocol as used by Outlook, it can serve files verbatim,
or forward requests to a FastCGI server such as php-fpm(8).
.PP
Generally, http(8gx) also executed the Information Store, exmdb_provider(4gx),
which is a loadable module.
.SH Options
.TP
\fB\-c\fP \fIconfig\fP
Read configuration directives from the given file. If this option is not
specified, /etc/gromox/http.cfg will be read if it exists.
.TP
\fB\-?\fP
Display option summary.
.SH URI processing order
.IP \(bu 4
Requests are passed to the mod_rewrite(4gx) module (built-in) to have their URI
potentially rewritten.
.IP \(bu 4
If a HTTP request is using the methods RPC_IN_DATA or RPC_OUT_DATA, the data
stream is handed off to the exchange_emsmdb(4gx) component.
.IP \(bu 4
Otherwise, HTTP processing modules (HPM) are invoked. Processing ends when
one module signals that the request was handled. The order depends on the HPM
list (which is fixed): ews, mh_emsmdb, mh_nsp, oxdisco, oab.
.IP \(bu 4
Otherwise, the mod_fastcgi(4gx) module (built-in) is invoked. Processing ends
if the module handled the request.
.IP \(bu 4
Otherwise, the mod_cache(4gx) module (built-in) is invoked. Processing ends
if the module handled the request.
.IP \(bu 4
Otherwise, the request is rejected.
.SH RPC-over-HTTP
RPC-over-HTTP utilizes two special HTTP methods, RPC_IN_DATA and RPC_OUT_DATA.
These requests can, similarly to HTTP CONNECT, be very long-lived. The RPC data
stream is handled by the included exchange_emsmdb(4gx) component.
.PP
All time-based command-line options and configuration file directives are
subject to the syntax described in gromox(7), section "Duration
specifications".
.SH Configuration directives (gromox.cfg)
The following directives are recognized when reading from
/etc/gromox/gromox.cfg, or when the \fB\-c\fP option is used to specify a
custom file:
.TP
\fBdaemons_fd_limit\fP
In gromox-http, this is treated as an alias for http_fd_limit.
.TP
\fBhttp_basic_auth_cred_caching\fP
Perform credential caching for HTTP Basic.
.br
Default: \fI1minute\fP
.TP
\fBhttp_fd_limit\fP
Request that the file descriptor table be at least this large. The magic value
0 indicates that the system default hard limit (rlim_max, cf. setrlimit(2))
should be used.
.br
Default: \fI0\fP
.TP
\fBhttp_remote_host_hdr\fP
The name of the HTTP request header which contains the actual client IPv6/IPv4
address. When a (reverse) proxy is placed in front of gromox-http, the address
gxhttp normally sees is the proxy address (e.g. ::1). If the proxy sets a
custom header to convey the actual client address, Gromox can pick this up for
its own reporting, which in turn is useful for e.g. fail2ban setups.
.br
Default: (empty)
.TP
\fBistore_standalone\fP
This directive serves as a mutual exclusion device between http(8gx) and
istore(8gx) and controls which one of the two is in charge of running the
mailbox engine. If this is set to no, http will be the one and istore(8gx) has
no function.
.br
Default: \fIno\fP
.SH Configuration directives (http.cfg)
The following directives are recognized when reading from /etc/gromox/http.cfg,
or when the \fB\-c\fP option is used to specify a custom file:
.TP
\fBblock_interval_auths\fP
The amount of time a user is blocked from connecting to the service after too
many failed logins.
.br
Default: \fI1 minute\fP
.TP
\fBconfig_file_path\fP
Colon-separated list of directories which will be scanned when locating further
configuration files, especially those used by subcomponent instances. (For
example, mysql_adaptor(4gx) would be directed to look at
/etc/gromox/http/mysql_adaptor.cfg before /etc/gromox/mysql_adaptor.cfg.)
.br
Default: \fI/etc/gromox/http:/etc/gromox\fP
.TP
\fBcontext_average_mem\fP
Default: \fI256K\fP
.TP
\fBcontext_num\fP
Default: \fI400\fP
.TP
\fBdata_file_path\fP
Colon-separated list of directories which will be scanned when locating data
files.
.br
Default: \fI/usr/share/gromox/http\fP
.TP
\fBfastcgi_exec_timeout\fP
Maximum execution time for CGI scripts.
.br
Default: \fI10 minutes\fP
.TP
\fBgss_program\fP
The helper program to use for authenticating HTTP requests when
Negotiate-SPNEGO headers are presented. The value is rudimentarily tokenized at
whitespaces, and no special characters may be used. If necessary, write your
own wrapper. The special value "internal-gss" uses libgssapi directly.
.br
Negotiate was meant to carry GSS-API auth data (appearing as "Authorization:
Negotiate YII..." in HTTP protocol dumps). NTLM can be wrapped in SPNEGO (also
shows up as "YII"), but a handful of clients may also send raw NTLM tokens
(appearing as "Authorization: Negotiate TlRMTVNT..."). Whether raw NTLM tokens
are accepted by internal-gss depends on your GSS library and, more broadly,
your Kerberos setup. Otherwise, you may need to use a helper program like the
one from Squid. internal-gss also does not offer a way to specify a separate
keytab or replay cache parameters, so use Squid's helper if you need such
parameters.
.br
Default: \fIinternal\-gss\fP
.br
Example: \fI/usr/lib/squid/negotiate_wrapper_auth \-\-ntlm /usr/bin/ntlm_auth
\-\-helper\-protocol=squid\-2.5\-ntlmssp \-\-kerberos
/usr/lib/squid/negotiate_kerberos_auth \-s GSS_C_NO_NAME\fP
.TP
\fBhost_id\fP
A unique identifier for this system. It is used for the Server HTTP responses
header, for components like exmdb_provider(4gx), which makes use of it for
SMTP HELO lines, for DSN report texts, for MIDB database/EML cache. The
identifier should only use characters allowed for hostnames.
.br
Default: (system hostname)
.TP
\fBhttp_auth_basic\fP
Enable HTTP Basic authentication.
.br
Default: \fIyes\fP
.TP
\fBhttp_auth_spnego\fP
Enable HTTP Negotiate authentication.
.br
Default: \fIno\fP
.TP
\fBhttp_auth_times\fP
The number of login tries a user is allowed before the account is blocked.
.br
Default: \fI10\fP
.TP
\fBhttp_certificate_passwd\fP
The password to unlock TLS certificates.
.br
Default: (unset)
.TP
\fBhttp_certificate_path\fP
A colon-separated list of TLS certificate files. The complete certificate chain
should be present (as there is no other config directive to pull CA certs in,
and implicit loading from system directories is not guaranteed by Gromox).
.br
Default: (unset)
.TP
\fBhttp_conn_timeout\fP
If a HTTP connection is inactive for the given period, the connection is
terminated.
.br
Default: \fI3 minutes\fP
.TP
\fBhttp_debug\fP
If set to \fB1\fP, prints all incoming and outgoing HTTP traffic to stderr (not
http_log_file!).
.br
Default: \fI0\fP
.TP
\fBhttp_enforce_auth\fP
Enforce authentication at all times. This is a debugging knob.
.br
Default: \fIno\fP
.TP
\fBhttp_krb_service_principal\fP
Kerberos service principal to use when gss_program=internal-gss. The form is
often something like \fIHTTP\fP\fB/\fP\fIfqdn\fP\fB@\fP\fIREALM\fP, but may
vary. When using an external GSS authentication helper,
http_krb_service_principal has no effect, and any principal you want to use
needs to be passed via the \fBgss_program\fP directive in some way.
be
.br
Default: (empty)
.TP
\fBhttp_listen_addr\fP
AF_INET6 socket address to bind the HTTP service to.
.br
Default: \fI::\fP
.TP
\fBhttp_listen_port\fP
The TCP port to expose the HTTP protocol service on.
.br
Default: \fI80\fP
.TP
\fBhttp_listen_tls_port\fP
The TCP port to expose implicit-TLS HTTP protocol service (HTTPS) on.
.br
Default: (unset)
.TP
\fBhttp_log_file\fP
Target for log messages here. Special values: "\fI-\fP" (stderr/syslog
depending on parent PID) or "\fIsyslog\fP" are recognized.
.br
Default: \fI-\fP (auto)
.TP
\fBhttp_log_level\fP
Maximum verbosity of logging. 1=crit, 2=error, 3=warn, 4=notice, 5=info, 6=debug.
.br
Default: \fI4\fP (notice)
.TP
\fBhttp_private_key_path\fP
A colon-separated list of TLS certificate private key files.
.br
Default: (unset)
.TP
\fBhttp_rqbody_flush_size\fP
If the HTTP request to a CGI endpoint has a HTTP body larger than the limit
given here, the data is buffered in a file rather than kept in memory. If the
request uses Chunked Transfer Encoding, a file is used unconditionally.
.br
Default: \fI512K\fP
.TP
\fBhttp_rqbody_max_size\fP
If the Content-Length of a HTTP request to a CGI endpoint is larger than this
value, the request is rejected.
.br
Default: \fI50M\fP
.TP
\fBhttp_support_tls\fP
This flag controls whether (or not) the server offers TLS at all. The default
is false because you need a certificate for this first.
.br
Default: \fIfalse\fP
.TP
\fBhttp_thread_charge_num\fP
Connection load factor (oversubscription ratio) for a processing thread.
.br
Default: \fI20\fP
.TP
\fBhttp_thread_init_num\fP
The initial and also minimum number of client processing threads to keep
around. This is similar to php-fpm's start_servers/min_spare_servere. (The
maximum number of threads, i.e. what would be max_spare_servers, is determined
by: context_num divided by imap_thread_charge_num)
.br
Default: \fI5\fP
.TP
\fBmsrpc_debug\fP
Log every completed RPC call and the return code of the operation in a minimal
fashion to stderr. Level 1 emits RPCs with a failure return code, level 2 emits
all RPCs. Note the daemon log level needs to be "debug" (6), too.
.br
Default: \fI0\fP
.TP
\fBrequest_max_mem\fP
The maximum hint size for fragmented RPC PDU requests that will be allowed
(C706 ยง12.6.3.7, MS-RPCE v33 ยง2.2.2.6).
.br
Default: \fI4M\fP
.TP
\fBtls_min_proto\fP
The lowest TLS version to offer. Possible values are: \fBtls1.0\fP,
\fBtls1.1\fP, \fBtls1.2\fP, and, if supported by the system, \fBtls1.3\fP.
.br
Default: \fItls1.2\fP
.TP
\fBrunning_identity\fP
An unprivileged user account to switch the process to after startup.
To inhibit the switch, assign the empty value.
.br
Default: \fIgromox\fP
.TP
\fBuser_default_lang\fP
Default: \fIen\fP
.SH Normative references
.IP \(bu 4
MS-RPCE: Remote Procedure Call Protocol Extensions
.IP \(bu 4
DCERPC / C706: Technical Standard DCE 1.1: Remote Procedure Call by The Open
Group, 1997
.SH See also
\fBgromox\fP(7), \fBmod_cache\fP(4gx), \fBmod_fastcgi\fP(4gx),
\fBmod_rewrite\fP(4gx)
