.TH imap.cfg 5gx "" "Gromox" "Gromox user reference"
.SH Name
.PP
\fBimap.cfg\fP \(em configuration file for the IMAP server
.SH Directives
.SS block_interval_auths
.PP
Default: \fI1 minute\fP
.SS config_file_path
.PP
Path specifying the directory which contains configuration overrides for
instances of service plugins run by imap.
.PP
Default: \fI/etc/gromox/imap\fP
.SS console_server_ip
.PP
The IPv4 address to expose the management console frontend on.
.PP
Default: \fI127.0.0.1\fP
.SS console_server_port
.PP
The TCP port to expose the management console frontend on.
.PP
Default: \fI4455\fP
.SS context_average_mem
.PP
Default: \fI128K\fP
.SS context_average_mitem
.PP
Lower clamp is at 128.
.PP
Default: \fI512\fP
.SS context_max_mem
.PP
Default: \fI2M\fP
.SS context_num
.PP
Default: \fI200\fP
.SS data_file_path
.PP
Path containing data files for service plugins.
.PP
Default: \fI/usr/share/gromox/imap\fP
.SS default_domain
.PP
Default: (empty)
.SS default_lang
.PP
Default: \fIen\fP
.SS host_id
.PP
Default: (hostname)
.SS imap_auth_times
.PP
Default: \fI10\fP
.SS imap_autologout_time
.PP
Default: \fI30minutes\fP
.SS imap_certificate_passwd
.PP
Default: (empty)
.SS imap_certificate_path
.PP
Default: (empty)
.SS imap_conn_timeout
.PP
Default: \fI3minutes\fP
.SS imap_force_starttls
.PP
Default: \fIfalse\fP
.SS imap_lang_path
.PP
Path to the imap_lang.txt file.
.PP
Default: (empty)
.SS imap_private_key_path
.PP
Default: (empty)
.SS imap_return_code_path
.PP
Path to the imap_code.txt file.
.PP
Default: (empty)
.SS imap_support_starttls
.PP
Default: \fIfalse\fP
.SS listen_port
.PP
The TCP port to expose the IMAP protocol service on. (The IP address is fixed
to the wildcard address.)
.PP
Default: \fI143\fP
.SS listen_ssl_port
.PP
The TCP port to expose implicit-TLS IMAP protocol service (IMAPS) on. (The IP
address is fixed to the wildcard address.)
.PP
Default: (empty)
.SS running_identity
.PP
An unprivileged user account to switch the process to after startup.
.PP
Default: (retain identity)
.SS service_plugin_ignore_errors
.PP
If set to yes, service plugins that fail to load on startup are ignored. If set
to no, the daemon will exist if any plugin cannot be loaded.
.PP
Default: \fIno\fP
.SS service_plugin_list
.PP
Path to a text file which lists the filenames of service plugins to load,
one per line.
.PP
Default: (empty; use built-in plugin list)
.SS service_plugin_path
.PP
Path to a secondary directory where service plugins will be loaded from if a
primary search in standard directories (as per ld.so(8)) was unsuccessful.
.PP
Default: \fI/usr/lib/gromox\fP
.SS thread_charge_num
.PP
Default: \fI40\fP
.SS thread_init_num
.PP
Default: \fI1\fP
.SH See also
.PP
\fBgromox\fP(7), \fBimap\fP(8gx)
