.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0 or-later
.\" SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2020-2022 grommunio GmbH
.TH imap 8gx "" "Gromox" "Gromox admin reference"
.SH Name
imap \(em Gromox IMAP server
.SH Synopsis
\fBimap\fP [\fB\-c\fP \fIconfig\fP]
.SH Options
.TP
\fB\-c\fP \fIconfig\fP
Read configuration directives from the given file. If this option is not
specified, /etc/gromox/imap.cfg will be read if it exists.
.TP
\fB\-\-version\fP
Output version information and exit.
.TP
\fB\-?\fP
Display option summary.
.SH Configuration directives
The usual config file location is /etc/gromox/imap.cfg.
.TP
\fBblock_interval_auths\fP
The amount of time a user is blocked from connecting to the service after too
many failed logins.
.br
Default: \fI1 minute\fP
.TP
\fBconfig_file_path\fP
Colon-separated list of directories in which further configuration files,
especially those used by plugin instances, will be searched.
.br
Default: \fI/etc/gromox/imap:/etc/gromox\fP
.TP
\fBcontext_average_mem\fP
Default: \fI128K\fP
.TP
\fBcontext_average_mitem\fP
The expected average upper bound of number of mails for a folder. Together with
context_num, this directive controls the size of the memory pool for listings.
.br
Default: \fI64K\fP
.TP
\fBcontext_max_mem\fP
Default: \fI2M\fP
.TP
\fBcontext_num\fP
Maximum number of concurrently active sessions.
.br
Default: \fI200\fP
.TP
\fBdata_file_path\fP
Colon-separated list of directories in which static data files will be
searched.
.br
Default: \fI/usr/share/gromox/imap\fP
.TP
\fBdefault_domain\fP
Default: (system domainname)
.TP
\fBdefault_lang\fP
Default: \fIen\fP
.TP
\fBenable_rfc2971_commands\fP
RFC 2971 specifies the "ID" command with which a client can inquire the program
name and version of the server. This is disabled by default, as it can
facilitate potential attackers' information gathering.
.br
Default: \fIno\fP
.TP
\fBhost_id\fP
A unique identifier for this system. It is used in the IMAP protocol greeting
lines (positive as well as negative). It is furthermore used as a unique
identifier among the set of all midb(8gx) clients to construct filenames for
the MIDB database/EML cache. The identifier should only use characters allowed
for hostnames.
.br
Default: (system hostname)
.TP
\fBimap_auth_times\fP
The number of login tries a user is allowed before the account is blocked.
.br
Default: \fI10\fP
.TP
\fBimap_autologout_time\fP
If an IMAP connection is idle for the given period, the connection is
terminated.
.br
Default: \fI30 minutes\fP
.TP
\fBimap_certificate_passwd\fP
The password to unlock TLS certificates.
.br
Default: (unset)
.TP
\fBimap_certificate_path\fP
Filesystem path to a certificate file for use with encrypted connection. The
complete certificate chain should be present (as there is no other config
directive to pull CA certs in).
.br
Default: (unset)
.TP
\fBimap_cmd_debug\fP
Log every incoming IMAP command and the return code of the operation in a
minimal fashion to stderr. Level 1 emits commands that have failed execution,
level 2 emits all commands.
.br
Default: \fI0\fP
.TP
\fBimap_conn_timeout\fP
If an IMAP connection stalls for the given period, the connection is
terminated.
.br
Default: \fI3 minutes\fP
.TP
\fBimap_force_tls\fP
This flag controls whether clients must utilize TLS, either by way of implicit
TLS (cf. \fBimap_listen_tls_port\fP), or through the STARTTLS command.
.br
Default: \fIfalse\fP
.TP
\fBimap_lang_path\fP
Path to the file for IMAP folder name translations. If only a
basename is specified, the file will be searched in
\fIdata_file_path\fP.
.br
Default: \fIimap_lang.txt\fP
.TP
\fBimap_listen_addr\fP
AF_INET6 socket address to bind the IMAP service to.
.br
Default: \fI::\fP
.TP
\fBimap_listen_port\fP
The TCP port to expose the IMAP protocol service on. (The IP address is fixed
to the wildcard address.)
.br
Default: \fI143\fP
.TP
\fBimap_listen_tls_port\fP
The TCP port to expose implicit-TLS IMAP protocol service (IMAPS) on. (The IP
address is fixed to the wildcard address.)
.br
Default: (unset)
.TP
\fBimap_log_file\fP
Default: \fI-\fP (stderr)
.TP
\fBimap_log_level\fP
Maximum verbosity of logging. 1=crit, 2=error, 3=warn, 4=notice, 5=info, 6=debug.
.br
Default: \fI4\fP (notice)
.TP
\fBimap_private_key_path\fP
Filesystem path to the key file needed to unlock the TLS certificate.
.br
Default: (unset)
.TP
\fBimap_support_tls\fP
This flag controls the offering of TLS modes. This affects both the implicit TLS
port as well as the advertisement of the STARTTLS extension and availability of
the STARTTLS command (RFC 2595) to clients.
.br
Default: \fIfalse\fP
.TP
\fBimap_thread_charge_num\fP
The maximum number of connections that each thread is allowed to process.
.br
Default: \fI40\fP
.TP
\fBimap_thread_init_num\fP
The minimum number of client processing threads to keep around.
.br
Default: \fI1\fP
.TP
\fBrunning_identity\fP
An unprivileged user account to switch the process to after startup.
.br
Default: \fIgromox\fP
.TP
\fBstate_path\fP
Directory for runtime variadic data.
.br
Default: \fI/var/lib/gromox\fP
.TP
\fBtls_min_proto\fP
The lowest TLS version to offer. Possible values are: \fBtls1.0\fP,
\fBtls1.1\fP, \fBtls1.2\fP, and, if supported by the system, \fBtls1.3\fP.
.br
Default: \fItls1.2\fP
.SH Files
.IP \(bu 4
\fIdata_file_path\fP/imap_code.txt: Mapping from internal IMAP error codes to
textual descriptions.
.IP \(bu 4
\fIdata_file_path\fP/imap_lang.txt: Translations for IMAP folder names.
.IP \(bu 4
/usr/lib/gromox/libgxs_*.so: service plugins
.SH See also
\fBgromox\fP(7), \fBmidb_agent\fP(4gx)
