.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0 or-later
.\" SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2025 grommunio GmbH
.TH istore 8gx "" "Gromox" "Gromox admin reference"
.SH Name
istore \(em Gromox Information Store launcher
.SH Synopsis
\fB/usr/libexec/gromox/istore\fP [\fB\-c\fP \fIconfig\fP]
.SH Description
The Gromox Information Store, exmdb_provider(4gx), is built as a shared object,
and can be either be loaded by gromox\-http(8) or run in a separate process
which is gromox\-istore. The benefit of a separate process is improved
debuggability.
.SH Options
.TP
\fB\-c\fP \fIconfig\fP
Read configuration directives from the given file. If this option is not
specified, /etc/gromox/gromox.cfg will be read if it exists.
.SH Configuration directives (gromox.cfg)
The following directives are recognized when reading from
/etc/gromox/gromox.cfg, or when the \fB\-c\fP option is used to specify a
custom file:
.TP
\fBconfig_file_path\fP
Colon-separated list of directories which will be scanned when locating further
configuration files, especially those used by subcomponent instances. (For
example, mysql_adaptor(4gx) would be directed to look at
/etc/gromox/istore/mysql_adaptor.cfg before /etc/gromox/mysql_adaptor.cfg.)
.br
Default: \fI/etc/gromox/istore:/etc/gromox\fP
.TP
\fBdaemons_fd_limit\fP
In gromox-istore, this is treated as an alias for istore_fd_limit.
.TP
\fBdata_file_path\fP
Colon-separated list of directories which will be scanned when locating data
files.
.br
Default: \fI/usr/share/gromox/istore:/usr/share/gromox\fP
.TP
\fBhost_id\fP
A unique identifier for this system. It is used for the Server HTTP responses
header, for components like exmdb_provider(4gx), which makes use of it for
SMTP HELO lines, for DSN report texts, for MIDB database/EML cache. The
identifier should only use characters allowed for hostnames.
.br
Default: (system hostname)
.TP
\fBistore_fd_limit\fP
Request that the file descriptor table be at least this large. The magic value
0 indicates that the system default hard limit (rlim_max, cf. setrlimit(2))
should be used.
.br
Default: \fI0\fP
.TP
\fBistore_log_file\fP
Target for log messages here. Special values: "\fI-\fP" (stderr/syslog
depending on parent PID) or "\fIsyslog\fP" are recognized.
.br
Default: \fI-\fP (auto)
.TP
\fBistore_log_level\fP
Maximum verbosity of logging. 1=crit, 2=error, 3=warn, 4=notice, 5=info, 6=debug.
.br
Default: \fI4\fP (notice)
.TP
\fBistore_standalone\fP
This directive serves as a mutual exclusion device between http(8gx) and
istore(8gx) and controls which one of the two will execute the mailbox engine.
If and only if this is set to yes will istore be able to startup, while http
will disable the engine on its startup.
.br
Default: \fIno\fP
.TP
\fBrunning_identity\fP
An unprivileged user account to switch the process to after startup.
To inhibit the switch, assign the empty value.
.br
Default: \fIgromox\fP
.SH See also
\fBgromox\fP(7), \fBexmdb_provider\fP(4gx)
