.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0 or-later
.\" SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2022 grommunio GmbH
.TH kdb\-uidextract 8 "" "Gromox" "Gromox admin reference"
.SH Name
\fBkdb\-uidextract\fP \(em Helper for creating a gromox\-kdb2mt ACL map
.SH Synopsis
\fBpython /usr/libexec/gromox/kdb\-uidextract\fP
.SH Description
kdb\-uidextract is a Python script utilizing python-kopano bindings to read
user object descriptions off a Kopano installation and produce a user listing
suitable for consumption by the gromox\-kdb2mt \-\-user\-map option.
.PP
This script is meant to be executed on a live Kopano system and does not rely
on Gromox components at all.
.PP
kdb\-uidextract first queries the server on the current machine for all
participating Kopano servers in the cluster. This requires that all Kopano
servers accept TLS connections (/etc/kopano/server.cfg:server_ssl_port,
server_ssl_key_file, sslkeys_path) and have authentication keys set up for the
SYSTEM account (in the directory specified by sslkeys_path).
.PP
The resulting map for kdb2mt is printed to stdout.
.SH Options
This program offers no command-line options.
.SH Files
By way of the \fIkopano\fP Python module, /etc/kopano/admin.cfg is sourced for
TLS certificate parameters. Confer with the kopano-admin.cfg(5) manpage.
.SH User map format
The output of kdb\-uidextract is a JSON file containing an array of user
objects. If running uidextract is not possible, or not applicable (e.g. in case
of Exchange user translation), the JSON file can also be constructed by other
means, including manual input. Each user object is a dictionary with zero or
more attributes; these can be:
.IP \(bu 4
"na": original username associated with the Kopano account (this can have many
forms, including, but not limited to, "user", "user@domain", "domain_user",
"domain\\user"; see "loginname_format" line of /etc/kopano/server.cfg)
.IP \(bu 4
"dn": X.500 Legacy DN associated with an Exchange account
.IP \(bu 4
"sv": server GUID, represented as 16 ASCII characters, case-insensitive
.IP \(bu 4
"st": store GUID, represented as 16 ASCII characters, case-insensitive
.IP \(bu 4
"id": per-database(!) numeric user ID
.IP \(bu 4
"em": original e-mail address associated with the Kopano account
.IP \(bu 4
"to": target e-mail address in the Gromox system
.PP
null values and empty strings are allowed. Take note that in multi-server
Kopano installations, every LDAP user will appear in \fBall\fP the
kopano-server databases, and with generally \fBdifferent\fP user IDs.
.PP
For sender/recipient address substitution (done by kdb2mt, or mbop-zaddrxlat):
The "to" attribute is needed. One (or both) of "na" and "em" is also needed.
.PP
For sender/recipient address substitution (done by mbop-exaddrxlat),
the "to" and "dn" attributes are needed.
.PP
For ACL substitution (done by kdb2mt), the "id", "sv" and "to" attributes are
needed.
.PP
For kdb2mt \-\-mbox\-user lookup, the "sv", "id" and "st" attributes are
needed.
.SH Example Kopano user map
.RS 4
.PP
.nf
[

 {"em": "boss@example.domain", "na": "boss", "sv":
  "0123456789abcdef0123456789abcdef", "st": "0123456789abcdef0123456789abcdef",
  "to": "boss@domain.example", "id": 3},

 {"em": "boss@domain.example", "na": "boss", "sv":
  "123456789abcdef0123456789abcdef0", "st": "0123456789abcdef0123456789abcdef",
  "to": "boss@domain.example", "id": 91}

]
.fi
.RE
.SH Example Exchange user map
.RS 4
.PP
.nf
[
 {"dn": "/o=foobar/ou=Gobbledygook/cn=00000000-boss",
  "to": "boss@domain.example"}
]
.RE
.SH See also
\fPgromox\fP(7), \fBgromox\-kdb2mt\fP(8), \fBkdb\-uidextract\-limited\fP(8)
