.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0 or-later
.\" SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2021 grommunio GmbH
.TH mapi 7 "" "Gromox" "Gromox developer reference"
.SH Name
mapi \(em Definition for "Messaging Application Programming Interface"
.SH Definition
MAPI (Messaging API) can have many different meanings. As abstracta:
.IP \(bu 4
The concept of the hierarchial organization into \fBcontainers\fP,
\fBtables\fP, \fBcontents\fP and \fBproperties\fP. Typical containers are
\fBstores\fP and \fBfolders\fP, typical contents are \fBmessages\fP,
\fBrecipients\fP, \fBattachments\fP.
.IP \(bu 4
More concrete variations, such as the set of "well-known" properties like, for
example, subject, modification date, body, etc., and the semantics expected of
them.
.IP \(bu 4
Optionally, the profile configuration structure present in some MAPI client
implementations, comprised of \fBprofiles\fP, \fBproviders\fP, \fBservices\fP,
\fBprofile sections\fP, \fBsessions\fP and their associated properties. A
server generally does not know or need to know about these.
.IP \(bu 4
A specification of types and functions to make use of any of these concepts in
a programming language.
.PP
As an implementation or part thereof:
.IP \(bu 4
(Seemingly the most common meaning of "MAPI"!) The MSMAPI interface for
programming in C and/or C++ that comes with the Windows operating system/Office
package, with types like "IMAPIFolder" and "IMessage", functions like
"MAPILogonEx" or "IMessage::GetProperties", and identifiers like PR_SUBJECT.
.IP \(bu 4
The Office VBA interface for programming in VisualBasic, with types like
"Outlook.MailItem", object properties like "MailItem.Subject".
.IP \(bu 4
The wire protocols used for communication with Exchange Server. This has
received unfortunate terms like "MAPI/RPC" or "MAPI protocol". Specifically,
this includes the independently specified parts of: the Remote Operations
(ROP/OXCROPS) protocol, the EMSMDB v1 protocol, the NSPI protocol, the MAPI
Extensions For HTTP protocol (MAPI-over-HTTP, MAPIHTTP), and their particular
format of serialized representations of MAPI objects that each peer may have.
Note that MAPIHTTP is not in any way "more MAPI" than RPC-over-HTTP (aka RPCH)
already was: both MAPIHTTP and RPCH wrap OXCROPS.
.SH Gromox implementation
Gromox does not offer an MSMAPI-style programming API for the C or C++ language
environments; the types and functions that are exposed in .h/.hpp files are
intended for its own use only and are not considered public let alone constant
over time.
.PP
Gromox offers interfacing at the network level, e.g. via
exchange_emsmdb(4gx)/http(8gx) for the Exchange protocol formats, or via
exmdb_provider(4gx) and zcore(8gx) using its own wire formats.
.PP
Gromox offers a somewhat MSMAPI-resembling interface for programming in PHP.
This is a set of 119 freestanding functions that implement the concepts of
stores, folders, messages, etc.
