.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0 or-later
.\" SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2020-2022 grommunio GmbH
.TH midb 8gx "" "Gromox" "Gromox admin reference"
.SH Name
midb \(em Message Index database daemon
.SH Synopsis
\fBmidb\fP [\fB\-c\fP \fIconfig\fP]
.SH Description
midb is used by imap(8gx) and pop3(8gx) to generate and keep track of folder
and message summaries. In particular, it enumerates messages to give them their
IMAP UID and have at all times a suitable UIDNEXT value for folders ready. midb
also caches the Message-Id, modification date, message flags, subject and
sender to facilitate IMAP listings.
.SH Options
.TP
\fB\-c\fP \fIconfig\fP
Read configuration directives from the given file. If this option is not
specified, /etc/gromox/midb.cfg will be read if it exists.
.TP
\fB\-\-version\fP
Output version information and exit.
.TP
\fB\-?\fP
Display option summary.
.SH Configuration directives
The usual config file location is /etc/gromox/midb.cfg.
.TP
\fBconfig_file_path\fP
Colon-separated list of directories which will be scanned when locating further
configuration files, especially those used by plugin instances.
.br
Default: \fI/etc/gromox/midb:/etc/gromox\fP
.TP
\fBdata_file_path\fP
Colon-separated list of directories which will be scanned when locating data
files.
.br
Default: \fI/usr/share/gromox/midb\fP
.TP
\fBdefault_charset\fP
Default: \fIwindows-1252\fP
.TP
\fBmidb_cache_interval\fP
The time after the last use of a particular midb.sqlite3 that the sqlite gets
unloaded.
.br
Default: \fI30minutes\fP
.TP
\fBmidb_cmd_debug\fP
Log every incoming MIDB command and the return code of the operation in a
minimal fashion to stderr. Level 1 emits commands with a failure return code,
level 2 emits all commands.
.br
Default: \fI0\fP
.TP
\fBmidb_listen_ip\fP
An IPv6 address (or v4-mapped address) for exposing the event service on.
.br
Default: \fI::1\fP
.TP
\fBmidb_listen_port\fP
The TCP port number for exposing the event service on.
.br
Default: \fI5555\fP
.TP
\fBmidb_log_file\fP
Default: \fI-\fP (stderr)
.TP
\fBmidb_log_level\fP
Maximum verbosity of logging. 1=crit, 2=error, 3=warn, 4=notice, 5=info, 6=debug.
.br
Default: \fI4\fP (notice)
.TP
\fBmidb_mime_number\fP
Default: \fI4096\fP
.TP
\fBmidb_reload_interval\fP
The time after a midb.sqlite3 was first loaded that it will be unloaded.
.br
Default: \fI60min\fP
.TP
\fBmidb_schema_upgrades\fP
This directive controls whether database schemas are automatically upgraded
when a message index database (midb.sqlite) is loaded. During this time, that
DB is unavailable and operations on it will be delayed. Connection aborts, if
any, would be due to timeouts in components other than midb. (The file can
temporarily grow to double its size, so ample disk space may be required.)
.br
Default: \fIno\fP
.TP
\fBmidb_table_size\fP
Default: \fI5000\fP
.TP
\fBmidb_threads_num\fP
The minimum number of client processing threads to keep around.
.br
Default: \fI100\fP
.TP
\fBnotify_stub_threads_num\fP
Default: \fI10\fP
.TP
\fBrpc_proxy_connection_num\fP
.br
Default: \fI10\fP
.TP
\fBsqlite_debug\fP
If set to 1, every query given to SQLite prepare/execute is logged.
If set to 0, only failed queries are logged. (It cannot be made completely
silent, since our queries ought to never fail.)
.br
Default: \fI0\fP
.TP
\fBsqlite_mmap_size\fP
See https://www.sqlite.org/pragma.html#pragma_mmap_size for details.
.br
Default: \fI0\fP (use SQLite default)
.TP
\fBsqlite_synchronous\fP
Enables/disables synchronous mode for SQLite databases. See
https://www.sqlite.org/pragma.html#pragma_synchronous for details.
.br
Default: \fIoff\fP
.TP
\fBsqlite_wal_mode\fP
Selects the particular journal mode for SQLite databases; \fBoff\fP selects
DELETE mode, \fBon\fP selects WAL mode. See
https://www.sqlite.org/pragma.html#pragma_journal_mode for details.
.br
Default: \fIon\fP
.TP
\fBstate_path\fP
Directory for runtime variadic data.
.br
Default: \fI/var/lib/gromox\fP
.TP
\fBx500_org_name\fP
Default: (unspecified)
.SH Files
.IP \(bu 4
\fIconfig_file_path\fP/exmdb_list.txt: exmdb multiserver selection map.
.IP \(bu 4
\fIconfig_file_path\fP/midb_acl.txt: A file with one address (IPv6 or
v4-mapped) per line of allowed clients. In its absence, ::1 is
default-whitelisted.
.IP \(bu 4
/usr/lib/gromox/libgxs_*.so: service plugins
.SH See also
\fBgromox\fP(7)
