.TH midb_agent 4gx "" "Gromox" "Gromox admin reference"
.SH Name
midb_agent \(em Service plugin for conversing with midb(8gx)
.SH Configuration directives
The usual config file location is /etc/gromox/midb_agent.cfg.
.TP
\fBconnection_num\fP
The number of connections to keep open towards every midb target.
.br
Default: \fI5\fP
.TP
\fBcontext_average_mem\fP
Enables and sets the size of a memory pool (in object count; the actual size is
256 bytes * context_num * context_average_mem). imap(8gx) and pop3(8gx) require
this to be non-zero for full functionality.
.br
Default: \fI1024\fP
.TP
\fBmidb_agent_command_buffer_size\fP
Certain midb commands can produce large results (such as P-SHRU with "ALL"). To
avoid unbounded memory allocation, the result set is limited in size. If midb
responds with a larger result, the midb connection is terminated and midb_agent
returns an error to e.g. IMAP/POP. The default of 256K is good for a result set
of around 24000 to 32000 messages.
.br
Default: \fI256K\fP
.SH Multiserver map
The SQL column \fBusers.homedir\fP specifies a home directory location in an
abstract namespace. This abstract namespace is shared between all Gromox
programs, and can be used to divide users into custom subsets and steer
connections to different servers.
.PP
midb_list.txt specifies how to map from this namespace to midb servers.
Each line in this file consists of 3 columns separated by whitespace:
.IP \(bu 4
Initial prefix to match a user's exmdb home directory on. The pattern should
almost always end in a '/' character, otherwise a prefix of "/home" is able to
match a userdir of "/home2/username" as well, which may be undesired.
.IP \(bu 4
The IPv6 (or v4-mapped) address of the midb server to use for this prefix.
.IP \(bu 4
The port number.
.PP
In the absence of midb_list.txt, an implicit default entry is used:
.RS
.PP
.nf
/ ::1 5555
.fi
.RE
.SH Files
.IP \(bu 4
\fIconfig_file_path\fP/\fIinstance\fP.cfg: configuration file for the instance
of midb_agent. (Instance is usually \fBmidb_agent\fP, as there is not much point
in loading midb_agent twice.)
.IP \(bu 4
\fIconfig_file_path\fP/midb_list.txt: midb multiserver map
.PP
\fIconfig_file_path\fP is determined by the configuration of the program that
loaded the midb_agent plugin.
.SH See also
\fBgromox\fP(7)
