.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0 or-later
.\" SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2020-2022 grommunio GmbH
.TH mysql_adaptor 4gx "" "Gromox" "Gromox admin reference"
.SH Name
mysql_adaptor \(em MySQL/MariaDB connector for user metadata and authentication
.SH Description
mysql_adaptor is a service plugin for integrating mail accounts from
a MySQL/MariaDB database.
.SH Configuration directives
The usual config file location is /etc/gromox/mysql_adaptor.cfg.
.TP
\fBconnection_num\fP
Number of SQL connections to keep active.
.br
Default: \fI8\fP
.TP
\fBenable_firsttimepw\fP
This flag determines whether non-LDAP users with no recorded password
(empty users.password SQL column) will have the account's password
set to whatever credential was passed along in the first authentication
request.
.br
Default: \fno\fP
.TP
\fBmysql_dbname\fP
Default: \fIemail\fP
.TP
\fBmysql_host\fP
The hostname/IP address for contacting the SQL server.
.br
Default: \fIlocalhost\fP
.TP
\fBmysql_password\fP
Default: (unset)
.TP
\fBmysql_port\fP
The TCP port number for contacting the SQL server.
.br
Default: \fI3306\fP
.TP
\fBmysql_rdwr_timeout\fP
This sets the MYSQL_OPT_READ_TIMEOUT and MYSQL_OPT_WRITE_TIMEOUT option values
on the MySQL connection.
.br
Default: \fI0\fP (no timeout)
.TP
\fBmysql_username\fP
Default: \fIroot\fP
.TP
\fBscan_interval\fP
Default: \fI1 minute\fP
.TP
\fBschema_upgrade\fP
This controls what to do when a database schema update is available.
Because there is no locking mechanism available that works across machines,
the mysql_adaptor plugin does not use any locking locally either. As a result,
the default is to not perform any upgrades.
.RS
.TP
\fBautoupdate\fP
Do perform automatic schema upgrades when mysql_adaptor is started. Warning:
This option can potentially be harmful if multiple programs try to upgrade the
database at the same time.
.TP
\fBhost:\fP\fIxyz\fP
Perform automatic schema upgrades, but only when executing from http(8gx)
and only when http.cfg's \fBhost_id\fP value matches \fIxyz\fP.
.TP
\fBskip\fP
No automatic schema upgrades are performed. The initialization will report
completion and the program continues execution. The mysql_adaptor plugin may
not properly work when desired tables are missing and cannot deliver data.
.TP
\fBabort\fP
No automatic schema upgrades are performed. The initialization is aborted and
the program terminates. Schema upgrades can be done manually with
gromox\-dbop(8gx).
.PP
Default: \fIskip\fP
.RE
.SH See also
\fBgromox\fP(7), \fBauthmgr\fP(4gx)
