.TH pad 8gx "" "Gromox" "Gromox admin reference"
.SH Synopsis
.PP
\fBpad\fP [\fB\-c\fP \fIconfig\fP]
.SH Options
.TP
\fB\-c\fP \fIconfig\fP
Read configuration directives from the given file. If this option is not
specified, /etc/gromox/pad.cfg will be read if it exists.
.TP
\fB\-\-version\fP
Output version information and exit.
.TP
\fB\-?\fP
Display option summary.
.SH Files
.IP \(bu 4
\fIdata_file_path\fP/midb_list.txt
.IP \(bu 4
\fIdata_file_path\fP/pad.txt
.IP \(bu 4
\fIdata_file_path\fP/pad_acl.txt
.SH Configuration file directives
.SS data_file_path
.PP
Directory for additional files.
.PP
Default: \fI/usr/share/gromox/sa\fP
.SS log_file_path
.PP
Default: \fI/var/log/gromox/sa.log\fP
.SS mysql_dbname
.PP
Default: \fIemail\fP
.SS mysql_host
.PP
The hostname/IP address for contacting the SQL server.
.PP
Default: \fIlocalhost\fP
.SS mysql_password
.PP
Default: (unset)
.SS mysql_port
.PP
The TCP port number for contacting the SQL server.
.PP
Default: \fI3306\fP
.SS mysql_username
.PP
Default: (unset)
.SS pad_comm_threads_num
.PP
Default: \fI5\fP
.SS pad_listen_ip
.PP
The IPv4 address for exposing the pad service on.
.PP
Default: \fI127.0.0.1\fP
.SS pad_listen_port
.PP
The TCP port number for exposing the pad service on.
.PP
Default: \fI22222\fP
.SS pad_pop_internal
.PP
Default: \fI10 minutes\fP
.SS pad_proc_threads_num
.PP
Default: \fI10\fP
.SS sensor_listen_ip
.PP
The IPv4 address for contacting the sensor(8gx) service.
.PP
Default: \fI127.0.0.1\fP
.SS sensor_list_port
.PP
The TCP port number for contacting the sensor(8gx) service.
.PP
Default: \fI11111\fP
.SH See also
.PP
\fBgromox\fP(7)
