.TH pam_gromox 8gx "" "Gromox" "Gromox admin reference"
.SH Synopsis
.PP
pam_gromox \(em a PAM plugin to authenticate with Gromox
.SH Overview
.PP
This module forwards authentication requests to the Gromox service plugins
which themselves may pick MySQL or LDAP as a backend. pam_gromox is meant to be
used in conjunction with non-Gromox SMTP/IMAP/etc. server processes that may be
logically located before Gromox services and serving as accelerators.
.SH Incantation in /etc/pam.d/smtp
.PP
Gromox accounts are not mapped from or to any Unix accounts, so the pam_unix.so
module that is present in the default /etc/pam.d/smtp module list within Linux
distributions is not suitable and can be wholly replaced. In otherwords,
/etc/pam.d/smtp need just contain:
.PP
.nf
auth required pam_gromox.so
account required pam_permit.so
.fi
.PP
(pam_gromox does not provide a usable "account" handler, therefore "account
required pam_gromox.so" would do nothing. The PAM framework always starts out
with an initial deny policy, so at least one module needs to be called to make
the PAM request succeed. For this reason, if there are no other "account"
modules listed, pam_permit.so should be used.)
.SH Configuration directives in /etc/gromox/pam.cfg
.TP
\fBconfig_file_path\fP
Colon-separated list of directories in which further configuration files,
especially those used by plugin instances, will be searched.
.br
Default: \fI/etc/gromox/pam:/etc/gromox\fP
.TP
\fBpam_prompt\fP
If pam_gromox detects the absence of a password but presence of a PAM
conversation function, it will attempt to retrieve the password that way, and
in doing so, will show this label just ahead of the nonechoing password prompt.
.br
Default: \fIPassword: \fP
.TP
\fBservice_plugin_ignore_errors\fP
If set to yes, service plugins that fail to load on startup are ignored. If set
to no, the daemon will exit if any plugin cannot be loaded.
.br
Default: \fIno\fP
.TP
\fBservice_plugin_list\fP
Path to a text file which lists the filenames of service plugins to load,
one per line.
.br
Default: (unspecified)
.TP
\fBservice_plugin_path\fP
Path to a secondary directory where service plugins will be loaded from if a
primary search in standard directories (as per ld.so(8)) was unsuccessful.
.br
Default: \fI/usr/lib/gromox\fP
.SH See also
.PP
\fBgromox\fP(7)
