.TH scanner 8gx "" "Gromox" "Gromox user reference"
.SH Synopsis
.PP
\fBscanner\fP [\fB\-c\fP \fIconfig\fP]
.SH Options
.TP
\fB\-c\fP \fIconfig\fP
Read configuration directives from the given file. If this option is not
specified, /etc/gromox/scanner.cfg will be read if it exists.
.TP
\fB\-\-version\fP
Output version information and exit.
.TP
\fB\-?\fP
Display option summary.
.SH Configuration file directives
.SS admin_mailbox
.PP
Default: (unspecified)
.SS backup_valid_days
.PP
Default: \fI90\fP
.SS data_file_path
.PP
Directory for additional files.
.PP
Default: \fI/usr/share/gromox/sa\fP
.SS default_domain
.PP
Default: (unspecified)
.SS freetime_scanning
.PP
Default: \fItrue\fP
.SS locker_listen_ip
.PP
The IPv4 address for contacting the locker(8gx) service.
.PP
Default: \fI127.0.0.1\fP
.SS locker_listen_port
.PP
The TCP port number for contacting the locker(8gx) service.
.PP
Default: \fI5555\fP
.SS log_file_path
.PP
Default: \fI/var/log/gromox/sa.log\fP
.SS log_valid_days
.PP
Default: \fI30\fP
.SS logo_link
.PP
The hyperlink that is associated with the logo image.
.PP
Default: (unspecified)
.SS mysql_backup_path
.PP
Default: \fI/tmp\fP
.SS mysql_dbname
.PP
Default: \fIemail\fP
.SS mysql_host
.PP
The hostname/IP address for contacting the SQL server.
.PP
Default: \fIlocalhost\fP
.SS mysql_password
.PP
Default: (unset)
.SS mysql_port
.PP
The TCP port number for contacting the SQL server.
.PP
Default: \fI3306\fP
.SS mysql_username
.PP
Default: (unset)
.SH See also
.PP
\fBgromox\fP(7)
