.TH smtp.cfg 5gx "" "Gromox" "Gromox user reference"
.SH Name
.PP
\fBsmtp.cfg\fP \(em configuration file for the SMTP server
.SH Directives
.SS anti_spamming_ignore_errors
.PP
If set to yes, AS plugins that fail to load on startup are ignored. If set to
no, the daemon will exist if any plugin cannot be loaded.
.PP
Default: \fIno\fP
.SS anti_spamming_init_path
.PP
Path to a secondary directory where service plugins will be loaded from if a
primary search in standard directories (as per ld.so(8)) was unsuccessful.
.PP
Default: \fI/usr/lib/gromox\fP
.SS anti_spamming_plugin_list
.PP
Path to a text file which lists the filenames of service plugins to load,
one per line.
.PP
Default: (empty; use built-in plugin list)
.SS block_interval_auths
.PP
Default: \fI1 minute\fP
.SS block_interval_sessions
.PP
Default: \fI1minute\fP
.SS config_file_path
.PP
Path specifying the directory which contains configuration overrides for
instances of service plugins run by smtp.
.PP
Default: \fI/etc/gromox/smtp\fP
.SS console_server_ip
.PP
The IPv4 address to expose the management console frontend on.
.PP
Default: \fI127.0.0.1\fP
.SS console_server_port
.PP
The TCP port to expose the management console frontend on.
.PP
Default: \fI5566\fP
.SS context_average_mem
.PP
Default: \fI256K\fP
.SS context_max_mem
.PP
Default: \fI2M\fP
.SS context_num
.PP
Default: \fI200\fP
.SS data_file_path
.PP
Default: \fI/usr/share/gromox/smtp\fP
.SS default_domain
.PP
Default: (empty)
.SS domain_list_valid
.PP
Default: \fItrue\fP
.SS flusher_plugin_path
.PP
Filename of a flusher plugin to load and use. (Only one can be in use at any
time.)
.PP
Default: \fIlibmtaflh_message_enqueue.so\fP
.SS host_id
.PP
Default: (hostname of the system)
.SS listen_port
.PP
The TCP port to export the SMTP protocol service on.
.PP
Default: \fI25\fP
.SS listen_ssl_port
.PP
The TCP port to expose the implicit-TLS SMTP protocol service on.
.PP
Default: (empty)
.SS mail_max_length
.PP
Default: \fI64M\fP
.SS running_identity
.PP
An unprivileged user account to switch the process to after startup.
.PP
Default: (retain identity)
.SS service_plugin_ignore_errors
.PP
If set to yes, service plugins that fail to load on startup are ignored. If set
to no, the daemon will exist if any plugin cannot be loaded.
.PP
Default: \fIno\fP
.SS service_plugin_list
.PP
Path to a text file which lists the filenames of service plugins to load,
one per line.
.PP
Default: (empty; use built-in plugin list)
.SS service_plugin_path
.PP
Path to a secondary directory where service plugins will be loaded from if a
primary search in standard directories (as per ld.so(8)) was unsuccessful.
.PP
Default: \fI/usr/lib/gromox\fP
.SS smtp_auth_times
.PP
Default: \fI3\fP
.SS smtp_certificate_passwd
.PP
Default: (empty)
.SS smtp_certificate_path
.PP
Default: (empty)
.SS smtp_conn_timeout
.PP
Default: \fI3minutes\fP
.SS smtp_force_starttls
.PP
Default: \fIfalse\fP
.SS smtp_max_mail_num
.PP
Default: \fI10\fP
.SS smtp_need_auth
.PP
Default: \fIfalse\fP
.SS smtp_private_key_path
.PP
Default: (empty)
.SS smtp_running_mode
.PP
Possible values: \fI0\fP (outbound), \fI1\fP (inbound), \fI2\fP (mixed)
.PP
Default: \fI2\fP
.SS smtp_support_pipeline
.PP
Default: \fIfalse\fP
.SS smtp_support_starttls
.PP
Default: \fIfalse\fP
.SS thread_charge_num
.PP
Default: \fI40\fP
.SS thread_init_num
.PP
Default: \fI1\fP
.SH See also
.PP
\fBgromox\fP(7), \fBsmtp\fP(8gx)
