.TH smtp 8gx "" "Gromox" "Gromox admin reference"
.SH Name
.PP
smtp \(em Gromox SMTP server
.SH Synopsis
.PP
\fBsmtp\fP [\fB\-c\fP \fIconfig\fP]
.SH Description
.PP
The SMTP server accepts network connection requests and performs zero or more
SMTP transactions per connection. Each received message is given to a flusher
plugin, of which there currently is just one, message_enqueue(4gx).
.PP
smtp(8gx) is the equivalent of the Postfix smtpd(8) process.
message_enqueue(4gx) is the approximate equivalent of the Postfix cleanup(8)
process.
.SH Options
.TP
\fB\-c\fP \fIconfig\fP
Read configuration directives from the given file. If this option is not
specified, /etc/gromox/smtp.cfg will be read if it exists.
.TP
\fB\-?\fP
Display option summary.
.SH Configuration file directives
.SS block_interval_sessions
.PP
The amount of time a source IP address is blocked from connecting to the
service because it tried to queue too many messages.
.PP
Default: \fI1 minute\fP
.SS config_file_path
.PP
Directory where plugin instances will look for their configuration overrides.
.PP
Default: \fI/etc/gromox/smtp\fP
.SS console_server_ip
.PP
The IPv4 address to expose the management console frontend on.
.PP
Default: \fI127.0.0.1\fP
.SS console_server_port
.PP
The TCP port number to expose the management console frontend on.
.PP
Default: \fI5566\fP
.SS context_average_mem
.PP
Default: \fI256K\fP
.SS context_max_mem
.PP
Default: \fI2M\fP
.SS context_num
.PP
Default: \fI200\fP
.SS data_file_path
.PP
Directory where plugin instances will look for their data files.
.PP
Default: \fI/usr/share/gromox/smtp\fP
.SS default_domain
.PP
Default: (system domainname)
.SS domain_list_valid
.PP
Default: \fIfalse\fP if server mode is 0 (incoming), \fItrue\fP otherwise
.PP
.SS flusher_plugin_path
.PP
Filename of a flusher plugin to load and use. (Only one can be in use at any
time.)
.PP
Default: \fIlibmtaflh_message_enqueue.so\fP
.SS host_id
.PP
Default: (system hostname)
.SS listen_port
.PP
The TCP port to export the SMTP protocol service on.
.PP
Default: \fI25\fP
.SS listen_ssl_port
.PP
The TCP port to expose the implicit-TLS SMTP protocol service on.
.PP
Default: (unset)
.SS mail_max_length
.PP
Maximum permitted length of a message.
.PP
Default: \fI64M\fP
.SS running_identity
.PP
An unprivileged user account to switch the process to after startup.
.PP
Default: \fIgromox\fP
.PP
To inhibit the switch, assign the empty value.
.SS service_plugin_ignore_errors
.PP
If set to yes, service plugins that fail to load on startup are ignored. If set
to no, the daemon will exit if any plugin cannot be loaded.
.PP
Default: \fIno\fP
.SS service_plugin_list
.PP
Path to a text file which lists the filenames of service plugins to load,
one per line.
.PP
Default: (unspecified)
.SS service_plugin_path
.PP
Path to a secondary directory where service plugins will be loaded from if a
primary search in standard directories (as per ld.so(8)) was unsuccessful.
.PP
Default: \fI/usr/lib/gromox\fP
.SS smtp_certificate_passwd
.PP
The password to unlock TLS certificates.
.PP
Default: (unset)
.SS smtp_certificate_path
.PP
Filesystem path to a certificate file for use with encrypted connection. The
complete certificate chain should be present (as there is no other config
directive to pull CA certs in).
.PP
Default: (unset)
.SS smtp_conn_timeout
.PP
If an SMTP connection stalls for the given period, the connection is
terminated.
.PP
Default: \fI3 minutes\fP
.SS smtp_force_starttls
.PP
This flag controls whether clients must utilize TLS, either by way of implicit
TLS (cf. \fBlisten_ssl_port\fP), or through the STARTTLS command.
.PP
Default: \fIfalse\fP
.SS smtp_max_mail_num
.PP
The maximum number of messages that a client is allowed to queue within one
connection before its source IP address is blocked.
.PP
Default: \fI10\fP
.SS smtp_private_key_path
.PP
Filesystem path to the key file needed to unlock the TLS certificate.
.PP
Default: (unset)
.SS smtp_support_pipeline
.PP
This flag controls the offering of the PIPELINING extension (RFC 2920) to
clients.
.PP
Default: \fIfalse\fP
.SS smtp_support_starttls
.PP
This flag controls the offering of the STARTTLS extension (RFC 3027) to
clients.
.PP
Default: \fIfalse\fP
.SS state_path
.PP
Directory for runtime variadic data.
.PP
Default: \fI/var/lib/gromox\fP
.SS thread_charge_num
.PP
The maximum number of connections that each thread is allowed to process.
.PP
Default: \fI40\fP
.SS thread_init_num
.PP
The minimum number of client processing threads to keep around.
.PP
Default: \fI1\fP
.SH See also
.PP
\fBgromox\fP(7), \fBdelivery\fP(8gx), \fBmessage_enqueue(4gx)\fP
