.TH str_table 4gx "" "Gromox" "Gromox admin reference"
.SH Name
.PP
str_table \(em string table match service plugin
.SH Description
.PP
str_table implements checking for a trivial presence lookup of something in a
text file. The plugin can be used in any Gromox process, but in practice
only makes an appeareance in smtp(8gx) and delivery(8gx).
.PP
The str_table plugin has multiple instances. These are:
\fBdomain_list\fP.
.PP
These instances are factual copies of the module to please the plugin loader
and make it load different .cfg files. (This is clearly inefficient and may be
fixed in a future release.) For example, the plugin loader will derive the name
"domain_list.cfg" from the module name "libgxs_domain_list.so", and then
pass this filename to the module so it can be loaded as a config file.
.PP
The plugin supports temporary modification of the string table as it exists in
memory through the telnet console mechanism. A reload of the table from disk
purges these modifications.
.SH Configuration file directives
.TP
\fBadd_service_name\fP
The plugin instance will expose its function through this service function
name. You should not generally this, because other plugins rely on certain
fixed values.
.br
Default: \fIinstance_name\fP_add
.TP
\fBgrowing_num\fP
The maximum number of additional string table entries on top of what the
on-disk table file has supplied. So when the table file contains 40 entries and
growing_num is 100, the in-memory copy of the table can hold up to 140 entries
total.
.br
Default: \fI100\fP
.TP
\fBis_case_sensitive\fP
Flag which determines whether matches should treat uppercase and lowercase
differently or not.
.br
Default: \fIfalse\fP
.TP
\fBquery_service_name\fP
The plugin instance will expose its function through this service function
name. You should not generally this, because other plugins rely on certain
fixed values.
.br
Default: \fIinstance_name\fP_query
.TP
\fBremove_service_name\fP
The plugin instance will expose its function through this service function
name. You should not generally this, because other plugins rely on certain
fixed values.
.br
Default: \fIinstance_name\fP_remove
.SH Files
.IP \(bu 4
\fIconfig_file_path\fP/\fIinstance\fP.cfg: configuration file for the instance
of str_table (e.g. /etc/gromox/delivery/domain_list.cfg when delivery(8gx) was
made to load libgxs_domain_list.so.)
.IP \(bu 4
\fIstate_path\fP/\fIinstance\fP.txt, \fIconfig_file_path\fP/\fIinstance\fP.txt:
string table on which matches are carried out (e.g.
/var/lib/gromox/domain_list.txt)
.SH See also
.PP
\fBgromox\fP(7)
