.TH zcore.cfg 5gx "" "Gromox" "Gromox user reference"
.SH Name
.PP
\fBzcore.cfg\fP \(em configuration file for the zcore service
.SH Directives
.SS address_cache_internal
.PP
Default: \fI5 minutes\fP
.SS address_item_num
.PP
Default: \fI100000\fP
.SS address_table_size
.PP
Default: \fI3000\fP
.SS config_file_path
.PP
Directory where plugin instances will look for their configuration overrides.
.PP
Default: \fI/etc/gromox/zcore\fP
.SS console_server_ip
.PP
The IPv4 address to expose the management console frontend on.
.PP
Default: \fI127.0.0.1\fP
.SS console_server_port
.PP
The TCP port number to expose the management console frontend on.
.PP
Default: \fI3344\fP
.SS data_file_path
.PP
Directory where plugin instances will look for their data files.
.PP
Default: \fI/usr/share/gromox/zcore\fP
.SS default_charset
.PP
Default: \fIwindows-1252\fP
.SS default_timezone
.PP
Default: \fIAsia/Shanghai\fP
.SS freebusy_tool_path
.PP
Default: \fI/usr/libexec/gromox/freebusy\fP
.SS host_id
.PP
Default: (system hostname)
.SS mailbox_ping_interval
.PP
Default: \fI5 minutes\fP
.SS mail_max_length
.PP
Default: \fI64M\fP
.SS max_ext_rule_length
.PP
Default: \fI510K\fP
.SS max_mail_num
.PP
Default: \fI1000000\fP
.SS max_rcpt_num
.PP
Default: \fI256\fP
.SS notify_stub_threads_num
.PP
Default: \fI10\fP
.SS rpc_proxy_connection_num
.PP
Default: \fI10\fP
.SS separator_for_bounce
.PP
Default: \fI;\fP (semicolon)
.SS service_plugin_ignore_errors
.PP
If set to yes, service plugins that fail to load on startup are ignored. If set
to no, the daemon will exist if any plugin cannot be loaded.
.PP
Default: \fIno\fP
.SS service_plugin_list
.PP
Path to a text file which lists the filenames of service plugins to load,
one per line.
.PP
Default: (unspecified)
.SS service_plugin_path
.PP
Path to a secondary directory where service plugins will be loaded from if a
primary search in standard directories (as per ld.so(8)) was unsuccessful.
.PP
Default: \fI/usr/lib/gromox\fP
.SS smtp_server_ip
.PP
SMTP server IPv4 address to contact for outgoing mail.
.PP
Default: \fI127.0.0.1\fP
.SS smtp_server_port
.PP
SMTP server TCP port number to contact for outgoing mail.
.PP
Default: \fI25\fP
.SS submit_command
.PP
Default: \fI/usr/bin/php /usr/share/gromox/sa/submit.php
.SS user_cache_interval
.PP
Default: \fI1 hour\fP
.SS user_table_size
.PP
Default: \fI5000\fP
.SS x500_org_name
.PP
Default: (unspecified)
.SS zarafa_mime_number
.PP
Default: \fI4096\fP
.SS zarafa_threads_num
.PP
The minimum number of client processing threads to keep around.
.PP
Default: \fI100\fP
.SH See also
.PP
\fBgromox\fP(7), \fBzcore\fP(8gx)
